DAILY MAIL COMMENT: National identity is central to the EU vote

As yet another cargo of suspected illegal migrants is stopped in the south east, the Mail has a question: for every boat and lorryload intercepted, how many more slip through undetected?

Heaven knows, net legal migration is high enough, with the Office for National Statistics putting it at 333,000 in 2015.

Of these, 184,000 came from the EU alone, adding a population the equivalent of Colchester’s in a single year.

Indeed, as a former Oxford professor of demography spelled out in Saturday’s Mail, even if these figures told the whole story, white English-speakers will become a minority in Britain by the 2060s.

Yet with dozens of Albanians and Africans caught in West Sussex and Kent over the past ten days alone – and many more waiting in France to try to cross – we can only guess how illegal migration is accelerating the demographic upheaval.

What is certain is that if nothing is done to curb the numbers, Britain will cease to be recognisably British even sooner than officially recorded trends suggest.

Yet to Remain campaigners and the multinational bodies that support them, migration and national identity are mere side-issues in the referendum, paling to insignificance beside the great god of Gross Domestic Product (which tells us almost nothing about living standards).

As Remain’s strategist Ryan Coetzee tweeted: ‘No policy on immigration is the right policy if it crashes the economy.’

Meanwhile, the OECD stoked up the scaremongering, warning that by 2020 Brexit could cut the UK’s GDP growth by 3 per cent and the EU’s by 1 per cent.

Leave aside that the think-tank’s record of crystal ball-gazing is eccentric to say the least, (remember how it said Britain would suffer outside the catastrophic euro?). Forget, too, that the OECD gets hefty financial backing from Brussels.

The truth is that nobody can foretell the economic consequences of Brexit with certainty – though this paper believes the gains could be considerable.

What we can surely predict is that mass migration will put increasingly intolerable pressure on jobs, housing, schools, healthcare and other public services.

We also know the only way to begin controlling it, and so keep Britain British, is to regain control of our borders.

This cannot be brushed off as a side-issue. It is absolutely central to the question voters will answer on June 23.

Bring them to justice

As a rule, this paper believes Britain devotes too much time to delving into events of the distant past.

But the 1974 Birmingham pub bombings were so horrific that coroner Louise Hunt deserves praise for reopening the inquest.

One caveat: these hearings must not be side-tracked by attacks on police failings. Nor should they dwell on the wrongful imprisonment of the Birmingham Six, for which the bombings risk being chiefly remembered.

Instead, they should refocus on the cold-blooded evil of the murderers never brought to justice. The dead and injured and their loved ones deserve no less.

Migration madness

In a Home Office farce to make the blood boil, two utterly decent, hard-working families from kith-and-kin countries, Canada and Australia, who have contributed hugely to their Scottish Highland communities, are ordered out of the UK on a technicality.

Meanwhile in overcrowded London, a drug-dealing, Albanian double-murderer is granted legal aid to avoid extradition.

This is policy gone mad, run by a Home Office that has lost the plot, a Government deaf to voters’ concerns about mass migration and a Brussels bureaucracy impervious to common sense.