
OUR NATION: Former equality boss Trevor Phillips on immigration Brexit & Britain

TREVOR Phillips, 62, last week warned the UK is “sleepwalking to catastrophe” because “squeamish and complacent” leaders will not talk about race.

Here, the former head of the Commission for Racial Equality explains why being “liberal and high-minded” about race, diversity and immigration is costing children’s lives.
WHY I AM SPEAKING OUT
My argument is, if you don’t deal with the questions of a segregated community that treats women differently, how long do you have to wait?
How many thousands of girls are going to get shipped off to Egypt or Somalia to have their genitals mutilated while we get ourselves into a place where we can feel comfortable?
We can afford to be liberal and high?minded because the time doesn’t cost the rest of us anything but for a 12-year-old who is going to be taken away this summer – it can’t be undone.
So my answer to these people who say, “Oh, not now, stop making a fuss”, is “How many thousands of children’s lives are you going to ruin before you feel comfortable?”
The conclusions that I’ve reached are really entirely evidence driven. I’ve always been rather keen on the facts leading opinion.
MY VIEW OF ELEMENTS OF THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY
Complete denial of any problem is something you only really hear from self-styled community leaders. I don’t think you hear that from ordinary Muslims.
What you hear from them is: “Yeah, it’s like that. My family isn’t like that but I know a lot of people who are and I wish it wasn’t that way.”
What you get is a lot of Muslim community leaders who essentially don’t want to hear this as they have invested in the fiction that if only you trust them, give them the grants and all the rest, it will all get solved in time.
What they mean in practice is: “Why don’t you all butt out and leave us to carry on in our own way.”
Well, I think a decent person has to ask themselves how many children’s lives do I want to ruin?
I always judge it by who stops me on the Tube. I get stopped two or three times a day and people say: “I’m glad somebody’s saying that.”
What I think has been different about this past week, which I’ve been really encouraged by, is that even the people who want to be angry about it – I’m talking about MPs and senior figures – they lean over and whisper: “We completely agree with everything you’ve said but do you have to say it now?”
There’s never a good time to say these things because it’s uncomfortable.
BRITAIN’S CHANGING ATTITUDE TO RACE
It’s all too easy to dismiss certain groups as though they are their parents and that their obsession is with colour. I don’t really think that’s true any more in this country.
It is the question of whether things are changing too fast, whether we’re able to accommodate all of the different needs.
A couple of years ago London suddenly realised that people had underestimated the number of primary schools that would be needed because nobody had thought immigrant families, younger and lot of them Catholic, would have more children. People who say, “Hang on, how did this happen?” – they aren’t saying that because they don’t like Poles.
They’re saying: “Why didn’t anyone think about this or warn us and why didn’t anybody get ready?”
THE IMPORTANCE OF ADULT EDUCATION
The reason I’m so keen on adult education is because the problem a lot of white Britons face is in some ways that large parts of the immigrant community face. They are somehow being left behind by the modern world because they don’t have the skills.
It’s very hard for some of our young people in places like Great Yarmouth, some parts of the North, to compete with young graduates from Poland or Lithuania or somewhere who speak several languages and have built up interpersonal skills in say, the hospitality industry.
The way we deal with the anxieties about immigration is not to blame the immigrants but to help our young people to be more competitive. If our youngsters could do the jobs, we wouldn’t need immigrants.
What we do at the Workers’ Educational Association (WEA) is important for both black and white. The world is changing really fast and unless we get some skills, all of our young people are going to be left behind.
STATING A FACT IS NOT BIGOTED
People mistake stating a fact for a stereotype. The point I make is about the 100m race – it is simply a fact [that black people are more successful here]. Now some people would say: “Why are you saying that. You’re implying that the only thing black men are any good at is running.”
Well, we’ve now got ourselves in a slightly ridiculous position. A fact is a fact – a piece of evidence, a set of numbers, you can then draw conclusions that may be incorrect. What we should be asking ourselves is: “Why are they good at running? Is it something that other people can learn?”
We don’t really have an answer because people are so anxious about stating the facts that nobody wants to investigate what has gone on here.
That’s a shame, because if we knew, for example, why it is that south Asian and Chinese children are so successful then, unless you truly believe it’s just genetics, we could find out if there was something that other families could copy to be successful.
Being overanxious about the facts may be preventing us from helping people who could transform their lives.
OUTRAGE AT THE N-WORD DISTRACTS FROM REAL ISSUES
There are more important things in life than what some idiot calls you. Ask yourself the question: “Am I more offended by the fact somebody calls me a rude name or that they don’t give me a job?”
Quite a lot of people who’d never dream of uttering the N-word have also never given a person of colour a job. They don’t get a free pass because they won’t say the wrong word. They’ve got as big a problem as people who use rude words.
THE EU REFERENDUM
I’m a member of the IN campaign board – my colours are nailed firmly to the mast. I’m not a lunatic Europhile. I’ve got a very simple view about this. Europe’s not perfect. But one of the things nobody seems to remember is, when Britain was great it was part of a great empire.
It wasn’t a little island on its own. It was a big part of the globe, which included people like my grandparents. To me the thing that is great about Britain, and it’s what brought my parents here, it’s that this country has made its way as a leader of alliances. It’s always been a top country among a group of nations.
The people who say, get out of the EU and so on, harking back, need to go back and read our history.
Trevor Phillips, OBE, is chairman of trustees at the Workers’ Educational Association, the UK’s largest voluntary sector provider of adult education.
