
Noel Edmonds is RIGHT: Britain is now totally full, agrees ROSS CLARK
IT takes an extraordinary twist of logic to claim that it is racist to suggest that Britain is “full” but then logic and Left-wing Twitter-users don’t exactly go together.
When Noel Edmonds casually vented his frustration about sitting in a traffic jam yesterday, the Twittersphere exploded with predictable outrage, with users describing him as a “vaguely racist idiot” and a “racist Tory”.
I am no Noel Edmonds fan but you could get more wisdom out of Mr Blobby than out of the Twitter trolls who sit waiting for politicians and celebrities to make any remark which they can possibly use to denounce them as racists.
It is rather like the two minutes’ hate in George Orwell’s 1984, when citizens were encouraged to pick someone to dislike and be as spiteful about them as they possibly could.
This is what Noel Edmonds actually tweeted: “Just tried to get somewhere. Allowed loads of time but abandoned journey. Am I alone in feeling that Britain is full?”
See, no mention of anyone’s race, no suggestion, even, that anyone is unwelcome in Britain. It is just a simple lament about how crowded parts of Britain now feel. Anyone who thinks that is racist should read Mein Kampf for a taste of the real thing. Did Noel Edmonds have immigration in mind when he wrote his tweet, as his attackers imply?
I have no idea but, if he did, that wouldn’t make his racist either. Surely we can discuss immigration policy and the effect on the economy and public services without being accused of being Ku Klux Klan sympathisers.
You can’t have a sensible discussion on migration without acknowledging that Britain, at 680 people per square mile, is already one of the most densely populated nations on earth. There are countries where people are more tightly packed than this but most are small city or island states such as Singapore or Hong Kong.
Of large nations, only Japan, South Korea, India and the Netherlands are more densely populated. The raw figures, however, do not tell the whole story. Britain’s population is very much skewed to London and the South-east, which is not all that far away from evolving into one large urbanised blob.
Even then, Britain wouldn’t feel quite so crowded were it not that investment in public services has lagged so far behind population growth.
Over the past 15 years the population of the UK has risen by nearly 10 per cent, from 59 million to 64 million. But have we got 10 per cent more hospital beds? No: the number has halved over the past 25 years.
True, a lot of that decline is due to medical advances which don’t require patients to stay in hospital so long but you do wonder how they would cope if a major accident or epidemic were to occur.
Have we got 10 per cent more roads? No – except for an extra lane around parts of the M25 the road network in the South-east has hardly expanded at all over the past 15 years.
The same is true of the railways – the only expansion in which has been the as yet unopened Crossrail line. As for schools, two-thirds of them in Greater London are now oversubscribed.
Catchment areas in some cases have shrunk to a few hundred yards and children are being sent to schools miles from where they live for want of places locally.
Then there is the chronic lack of housing. Last year 166,700 new homes were built across the UK. Yet the population grew by 491,000, 260,000 of which was thanks to net migration.
The average household size in the UK is 2.3, which suggests there is an annual shortfall of more than 100,000 new homes a year. The result is soaring rents and people living in illegally built garden sheds.
The Government has failed to match rates of migration with the provision of extra public services because it believed David Cameron’s promise to cut net migration to “tens of thousands per year”.
It didn’t think that extra schools, hospitals and homes would be needed so didn’t build them. An open migration system such as that forced on us by the EU throws a great big spanner in the state planning machine.
Up until 2004, when the EU was expanded to eastern Europe, planners in Whitehall could reasonably accurately predict the demand for homes, hospital beds and school places by studying census returns.
They knew, for example, how many two-year-olds would be going to school in three years’ time and could predict how many 75-year-olds would need hip operations in the next decade.
With uncontrolled migration, however, no one has any idea of how many people will be living in Britain in a few years’ time. No one knows how many people are living in Britain now. Councils in such places as Westminster have complained bitterly that the Government is underestimating their populations and leaving them short of resources to provide services.
Migrants who are living 10 to a room in illegally sublet council flats or in encampments in public parks simply aren’t being counted properly.
Many on the liberal-Left seem to think it is beyond the pale to say anything other than that migration has been a huge boon to the economy and to national life in general.
But sorry, people aren’t being racist when they are left complaining that they can’t get anywhere on the roads, they can’t breathe on rush-hour trains, they can’t find a school for their children and they can’t find a decent home to rent.
They are merely expressing frustration at the mismatch between public services and population growth that has been aggravated by uncontrolled migration.
