
No More: The UK cannot take five million more immigrants
This country is full up. We are bursting at the seams.
We are a small island with limited resources that have been stretched to breaking point by the influx of migrants and we simply cannot take any more. But we’re going to have to if we stay in the European Union: according to Migration Watch, up to five million more migrants will settle in the UK over the next 20 years.
This is unsustainable madness. We are already in a situation where there is a severe housing shortage, dreadful problems in schools where pupils do not have English as a first language, an NHS which is on the verge of collapse and yet still we let them in, as we are bound to, as the problems grow more and more severe.
When the Prime Minister ventured recently in his woefully inadequate negotiations with European leaders that perhaps there might be some sort of cap on benefits paid to immigrants, he was slapped down.
Countries such as Poland are now telling us what to do and how they must be enjoying that. The time has come to decide. Enough really is enough.
Growing diabetes threat
Britain is facing a health crisis: according to newly released statistics, 4,500 people are diagnosed with diabetes every week, with 235,000 sufferers emerging in the past year alone.
In some cases, of course, people are born with the disease, but in others it is down to lifestyle issues. It is ironic that just as we finally seem to be winning the battle against smoking and the myriad diseases it causes, a new threat to the nation’s wellbeing emerges.
In the cases where diabetes is caused by obesity, it is quite simple what people should do: eat less and take more exercise. However, it is far from simple to get them to take that advice. But we must not let up on getting the message across and we should start where we really can make a difference – in schools.
Get children to eat healthily and follow the example of those educational establishments that send them on a run every day. The habits might just stick.
Our superlative Queen
The weather may have been grey but the smiles were bright, both on the faces of the Royal Family and the thousands who turned out to see them, cheering the Queen and Prince Philip as they drove down The Mall.
In these unsettled and troubling times, it is good to be reminded that we are a stable United Kingdom with one of the most popular monarchs in history.
Happy Birthday Ma’am – and here’s to many more.
