Jobless refugees have no right to live in luxury
ONE might have hoped that Camden Council in North London had seen sense when it moved a Somalian family out of a £2million taxpayer-funded house.
But instead they were given a £1.3million home nearby with the council agreeing to heavily subsidise their rent so as not to fall foul of the benefits cap.
At a time when hard-working Britons are struggling to put a roof over their heads it is shameful that their taxes are paying for unemployed refugees to live in such an expensive home.
This family came here seeking sanctuary and they were given it.
That does not give them the right to live in the sort of home that many people can only dream of. Nor can they be allowed to sit idle on benefits.
The benefits cap, one of the Tories’ best policies, was implemented to discourage people from choosing to live on handouts.
Yet Labour-run Camden Council is undermining it by offering reduced rents on their properties so people on housing benefit can live like millionaires.
The Conservatives were returned with a majority in May in no small part because voters want a welfare system that delivers fairness for the people who fund it.
Labour politicians sitting on a local council should spend their time making sure the bins get collected, not plotting ways to funnel taxpayers’ cash into the pockets of jobless foreigners.
We need border controls
This newspaper has repeatedly warned that the migrant crisis will have a serious effect on Britain.
Now prosecutors say that a migrant teenager accused of taking part in the gang rape of a young girl in Austria has come to this country. The authorities cannot even stop alleged criminals who have been released on bail.
They have lost control of the situation and there is little to stop others coming here illegally.
It is only a matter of time until governments across Europe start giving migrants citizenship and with that the right to live here legally.
Only robust border controls and the right to turn away EU citizens will protect this country from the mass influx of North African and Middle Eastern migrants.
To achieve this we must vote to leave the EU.
A miracolous recovery
Mother-of-two Jane Hollywood was told by the NHS eight years ago that nothing could cure her cancer but after undergoing a pioneering treatment in the US she has been given the all-clear.
Advances in cancer treatment have been staggering.
Mrs Hollywood will not be the last person who owes a debt of gratitude to such amazing scientists and doctors.
