
EU directives on dredging made this crisis worse, Stephen Pollard
LISTEN to the Environment Agency or the Government and you will hear any number of reasons – excuses, you might call them – for the flooding that has devastated the North.
They are a repeat of the same excuses (sorry, “reasons”) we heard in 2014 when the Somerset Levels and much of Devon were submerged.
According to Environment Agency chief executive David Rooke, the UK is moving from a period of “known extremes” of weather to one of “unknown extremes”.
But there is one reason that is never mentioned and it hinges on a word that officialdom dismisses with contempt.
It is a word that until recently was one of the most familiar to anyone who lived near a river but which has almost entirely disappeared over the past 15 years. The word is dredging.
The reason it is no longer mentioned is because since 2000 and the passing of the European Water Framework Directive dredging has been deemed to be an offence against the environment.
The green zealots in Brussels who are our masters and their foot soldiers at the Environment Agency have consigned dredging to near-oblivion.
Dredging means removing the silt that builds up at the bottom of rivers and allows water more space in which to drain away. It is common sense. As rivers burst their banks the water seeps out and floods. If rivers have a greater depth because they have been dredged, then not only is there more space before they burst but the removal of the silt allows them to drain.
For centuries this is how we have managed our rivers and avoided the flooding that we are now experiencing. Previously water boards would dig out silt and pile it up on the riverbanks. No longer. The rivers are now silted up and the devastated villages, towns and cities are feeling the consequences.
It is not as if heavy rain is unusual. What has changed is the ban on dredging watercourses to carry the rainfall away. With the green ideologues in charge of history, local practice and common sense mean nothing.
Our masters in Brussels, in thrall to the green lobby, pushed through the European Water Framework Directive which demands that rivers are kept in “undisturbed natural conditions” with “good ecological status”. Heaven forfend that humans intervene to make things safer.
It used to be that landowners would dredge their own area. In the last century that duty was given to river boards made up of farmers, landowners and other locals. Then in 2000 the demand of the European Water Framework Directive that rivers are kept in undisturbed natural conditions transferred responsibility again to landowners.
But – and here is the rub – no one is allowed to dredge without permission from the Environment Agency. And because the Environment Agency is signed up to the EU’s green agenda it rarely allows dredging. Worse, on the rare occasions the Environment Agency bureaucrats do allow dredging the silt, sand and gravel dug up must be labelled as “controlled waste” so it can no longer be left on the riverbanks. And that makes it hugely expensive. If you think the Government might offer some help given how useful dredging is to surrounding areas, dream on.
Try to get someone to pay for dredging and you would be looked at as some kind of lunatic. What a contrast with the fortunes now made available to pay for conservation schemes or projects for “river restoration” designed to implement the European Water Framework Directive.
If you say you want to return rivers to their “natural state”, then agencies will queue up to give you money.
In the past 10 years 47 river trusts have been set up, all lavishly funded by the EU, the Environment Agency and the National Lottery.
Look at some of the posts on internet forums from landowners whose property is now under water and you will see unbridled anger. That anger is not directed against the elements and it is not even directed against the lack of sufficient flood defences. It is directed against the ideologically driven idiocy from Brussels that has destroyed centuries of local practice by banning dredging.
Take York. One landowner points out on a forum that flood defences are a red herring. They do not remove water but relocate it. As he puts it: “The rivers Ure and Swale, which join to form the Ouse, are embanked across the Vale of York preventing flood water from spreading over agricultural land.
“Ditches and streams are cleared by the Environment Agency bringing water quickly into these rivers but the huge volume of water reaching York is impeded by the lack of dredging.”
Without the EU’s demands the Environment Agency (assuming it was no longer issuing ideological diktats) would be able to approve dredging the rivers and allow excess water to run off quickly.
But while we remain members of the EU we must endure a regime that makes its priority not preventing flooding but allowing rivers to “re-connect with their floodplains”.
If it was not so serious, it would be a joke but the consequences are all too real.
