DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Confronting the truth about mass migration

After the hysteria and scaremongering, this was the week the spotlight of truth finally shone on one of the greatest issues of our time.

Leave aside investors’ growing confidence in a post-Brexit UK economy (see below). 

As found in poll after poll, mass immigration has long been the public’s gravest concern.

Yet for decades, politicians and the BBC censored debate, branding as ‘racist’ those who voiced anxieties about the erosion of our national identity or the pressure on jobs, housing, schools and healthcare.

This week, they could avoid the subject no longer, as the campaign focused mercilessly on our impotence to control our borders under the EU’s free movement rules and crazy human rights regime.

Prisons packed with foreign criminals we can’t deport, thousands of others on our streets… EU migrants flocking to the UK at a net 184,000 last year, bringing officially recorded immigration to more than three times David Cameron’s ‘no ifs, no buts’ target (sorry, ‘ambition’)…

Illegal migrants picked up by the boat and lorryload, suggesting many times more are undetected… hundreds camped on the French coast, waiting to attempt the crossing... many of them openly contemptuous of UK border controls.

Meanwhile, the mass exodus to the EU from the Middle East and North Africa gathers pace.

No wonder the Prime Minister appears so uncomfortable in the migration spotlight, snapping at interviewers and changing the subject when questioned about promises he can’t keep.

In his televised grilling on Thursday night, he even resorted to deception, claiming Britain has the right to deport jobless EU nationals after six months.

Has he so quickly forgotten that Angela Merkel overruled him when he begged for such restrictions on free movement?

How ironic that this was the week the German Chancellor warned countries ‘at the bargaining table’ get better deals than those ‘outside the room’.

Is it cruel to point out that when the PM was inside that room, our partners simply ignored his modest requests?

Instead of fibbing and squirming, Mr Cameron should come clean. He should unequivocally declare that if we wish to retain EU membership, uncontrollable immigration is the price we must pay. Voters will decide if it’s worth paying.

Osborne’s tainted ally

JUST when it seemed George Osborne could sink no lower in his scaremongering, he enlists the rapacious US bank J.P. Morgan to threaten 4,000 job cuts in the UK if we leave the EU.

Fined £26billion since the crash, in which it played a central role, this outfit is so tainted that Barack Obama barred its representatives from the White House.

Indeed, Mr Osborne demeans his office by consorting with a bank that, again and again, sells its integrity for the right price.

Elsewhere in the City, by contrast, investors in gilts are greeting the prospect of Brexit with perfect equanimity.

Despite all Mr Osborne’s prophesies of economic catastrophe if we pull out, confidence in Britain’s ability to pay its debts is close to a record high.

The Chancellor should stop talking his country down – and start looking for more respectable friends.

Decisions that beggar belief 

After a hugely welcome last-minute U-turn (under pressure from the Press), the families of British soldiers killed in Iraq will not have to pay for copies of the long-delayed Chilcot report on the war. 

One question: who were the twits who decided the bereaved should be charged £767? 

Were they the same people who made the frankly amoral decision to refuse asylum to Afghan interpreters, leaving them to be murdered for serving our country?