Remain campaign peddles outright lies at our expense, BLASTS Chris Roycroft-Davis
THE more it pumps out preposterous nonsense and lies about staying in the EU, the more the Government proves two things: one, it thinks people are stupid and, two, it’s scared it’s going to lose the referendum.
David Cameron is wrong on the first point because people who live outside the suffocating bubble of Westminster are worldly wise and can smell a rat at 50 paces. On the second point Cameron is right because the momentum is definitely swinging behind the Leave campaign and his job as Prime Minister is on the line. That’s why the scaremongering is sinking to new depths.
That’s why almost £10million of taxpayers’ money is being spent on sending a Government leaflet that will present propaganda as fact to 27 million homes. You’ll recognise the claptrap because you’ve seen it all before: our EU membership brings economic security, peace and stability; it keeps prices down; it secures our borders; it makes the weather better (OK, I made that up but so does the Government). Britain hasn’t been subjected to propaganda on this scale since Lord Haw-Haw broadcast his Nazi nonsense in the 1940s.
And if you think that reaction is overstated remember how Hitler’s spin doctor Joseph Goebbels described The Big Lie: “If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it. The lie can be maintained only for such time as the state can shield the people from the political, economic and/or military consequences of the lie.
“It thus becomes vitally important for the state to use all of its powers to repress dissent, for the truth is the mortal enemy of the lie and, by extension, the truth is the greatest enemy of the state.” I t is a doctrine that could have come straight from an EU handbook on maintaining its existence at all costs because to Brussels the truth is always the first – and least important – casualty.
You’re being asked to make a decision that affects the future of this country for generations to come and you deserve a fair and factual briefing so you can be certain you’re making the right choice. You don’t need the Europe-loving wing of the Cabinet pushing propaganda at you. That’s not how democracy is supposed to work. The arrogance of those in power is why the brave Dutch have just given the EU a bloody nose in their referendum.
This leaflet is such an outrageous abuse of power that at the time of writing more than 70,000 people have signed an online petition calling for it to be blocked. They’re sick of the endless scare stories. The deceit started soon after Cameron (to his surprise) won the election last year on a platform of giving us the EU vote. He suddenly realised he’d have to make good his promise and that he had to win the vote or his reputation would be shattered.
When MPs expressed qualms about voters being hoodwinked in the run-up to the referendum David Lidington, the Europe minister, promised Parliament there was “no intention of legislating to allow the Government to do things such as mailshots, paid advertising or leafleting”. I haven’t seen Mr Lidington recently but I assume his nose is now even longer than Pinocchio’s.
The Downing Street spin is that the Government sent out a leaflet to every home before the 1975 referendum on Europe so it’s not doing anything wrong but that overlooks the fact that back then there was 67 per cent support from voters for staying in a Common Market. Today there is massive support for leaving a political union. Then and now could not be more different.
If the Government has nothing to hide, why is it that Leave members of the Cabinet such as Chris Grayling and Priti Patel knew nothing about the leaflet until it was too late? What the Government is planning is nothing short of treachery: an attempt to make sure this country’s independence, law-making sovereignty and spirit of free enterprise is for ever chained down and that we are ruled by an unelected, foreign cabal who subjugate our national interest to their own self-interest.
I’m not going to dignify the rubbish that appears in the leaflet by going through it line by line. You don’t need me to tell you how laughable are claims such as “being in the EU ensures we are controlling immigration and securing our borders”. But it is important that we are not cowed by one assertion in particular: that leaving the EU would result in 10 years of uncertainty that would threaten the pound and destroy jobs. Faced with that horrendous prospect I can understand why some people might be frightened into voting to stay as we are.
But it is not true. We know because we have it on the authority of the head of the Remain campaign Lord Rose of Monewden (nice Mr Stuart who used to run M&S). This is what he “Nothing is going to happen if we come out of Europe in the first five years. There will be absolutely no change… it’s not going to be a step change or somebody’s going to turn the lights out and we’re all suddenly going to find that we can’t go to France, it’s going to be a gentle process.”
If we must have a leaflet, then one half should put the Remain case and the other half the Leave case –will be happy to supply the material. Then you can vote for the truth, not what desperate politicians are peddling at your expense.
