
Inside Politics: Extreme Left is destroying the Labour Party
IF THIS is how they behave during an election campaign just imagine how vicious the feuding will become after polling day
Labour was supposed to be displaying a united front in the final push towards local polls next Thursday, a crucial first nationwide test of Jeremy Corbyn’s leadership. Instead the party has been forced to suspend Left-wing veteran Ken Livingstone and Bradford West MP Naz Shah in a toxic row about anti-Semitism. 
The one television image of Labour that most voters will have absorbed this week was that of the backbencher John Mann yelling in Mr Livingstone’s face: “Disgusting, Nazi bigot!” As party political broadcasts go it was calamitous. “It was a truly dreadful day for us,” one senior Labour insider told me. 
“Occasionally in politics you get a sinking feeling and you know you really are in trouble. That’s how I felt when I watched those two going at each other.” Even before this week’s extraordinary row Labour MPs were braced to lose about 170 councillors in next Thursday’s town hall polls. 
They fear their party is about to slump to a humiliating third place behind the Tories in the Scottish Parliament and could haemorrhage votes to Ukip in Wales and the north of ­England. Mr Corbyn’s team are clinging to the hope that Sadiq Khan will win the London mayoral race as the one bright spot in some truly dire results.
Mr Corbyn’s foes within the party had planned to bide their time until after the elections before launching an attempt to oust him. The backbiting over the allegations that anti-Semitic views are widespread in sections of the party is a sign that the civil war has begun. F or Labour’s moderates the issue encapsulates all that is wrong with their party leader.
It exposes the twisted Marxist-Leninist ideology of the hard-Left that simplistically divides the world into imperialist oppressors and oppressed, smearing the state of Israel as a proxy for the supposed evil American empire. It also lays bare Mr Corbyn’s own inability to act decisively or provide any form of leadership. 
The Labour leader’s allies are braced for an attempt to prise him out of office this summer. Some among them are even beginning to believe Mr Corbyn may have to be replaced with a more robust hardLeft leader with a stronger appetite for getting a grip on the party machine and facing down the moderate threat. 
Shadow chancellor John McDonnell is being talked about as the figure to step in and turn the Left’s takeover of the Labour Party into a permanent revolution. The Hayes and Harlington MP, who once brandished a copy of communist tyrant Chairman Mao’s Little Red Book in the Commons, is regarded as a tougher and more ambitious operator than his friend Mr Corbyn.
“The difference between them is that John takes decisions and Jeremy doesn’t,” said one senior Labour insider. If a party leadership contest is triggered after the expected local election hammering, Left-wing plotters hope to persuade Mr Corbyn to stand aside and endorse Mr McDonnell as his successor. 
He would then be swept into the leadership with the support of hundreds of thousands of Left-wing activists in the Labour grassroots. Mr McDonnell is regarded to have worked hard to hone his media communication skills in recent weeks, making every effort to cast himself as reasonable and moderate. 
His Chairman Mao stunt will not be repeated. “John has learned from that,” said a friend. The shadow chancellor has also shown himself to be defter than Mr Corbyn at spotting political pitfalls. He quickly sacked Naz Shah as his parliamentary aide when her social media posts calling for the mass transportation of Israelis to the US emerged, in contrast to the leadership’s dithering over her suspension from the party. 
The threat of Mr McDonnell becoming Labour’s next leader is sobering for moderates plotting to oust Mr Corbyn, they had thought Labour reached rock-bottom when he was elected as leader. Fear is growing that the party’s terminal decline into a hard-Left sect may be only just beginning.
THERESA May lived up to her Cabinet nickname this week. The Home Secretary was disparagingly dubbed Tricksy Belle of Marsham Street by former Cabinet colleague Eric Pickles during the coalition years. Her Home Office HQ was seen as a semi-detached outpost of the Government discreetly used for furthering her own ambitions. 

Those suspicions resurfaced a few days ago when she used a speech backing David Cameron’s campaign to keep the UK in the EU to unveil her own plan for British withdrawal from the European Convention on Human Rights. 
Her plan, at odds with the Prime Minister’s ideas for reforming the way the convention operates, took both Downing Street and her ministerial colleagues by surprise. Officials found themselves having to hastily downplay the signs of a rift. 
Fellow frontbenchers dismissed suggestions that the move was a ruse to make the prospect of remaining in the EU more palatable to Eurosceptics wavering about how to vote in the referendum on June 23. “This was not some Machiavellian plot to try to win over Tory Eurosceptics,” a Tory minister told me. “She has gone rogue.”
Anti-Brussels campaigners also detected signs of ambition in the Home Secretary’s move. “Theresa May’s Tory leadership campaign is up and running,” said one Leave campaign source. Tory MPs suspect Mrs May is angling to present herself as a “unity” candidate in the event of a party leadership contest following swiftly on from the referendum result. 
By pitching herself as someone with little enthusiasm for the European project who wants to press for more EU reform from within the bloc, the Home Secretary might hope to bring together the two Tory tribes currently at loggerheads over the referendum campaign. 
Mrs May will also be aware of rumours that Mr Cameron is preparing a “referendum reshuffle” if his Remain campaign wins victory in the crunch poll. The Prime Minister is said to be ready to reward Cabinet ministers from the Leave side with promotions to key posts in the summer. 
That is likely to mean some long-serving Cabinet figures being moved on. Mrs May’s salvo this week was a signal of her independence and potential willingness to cause trouble if the Prime Minister attempts to demote her. For Mr Cameron, working with Tricksy is not getting any easier.
