
It's a scandal that we pay huge benefits to the EU jobless
WE are often being told about the economic benefits brought on by increased immigration.
What, then, are we to make of the appalling news that £886million of our money a year is being paid out in benefits to jobless EU migrants?
It is an extraordinary amount and one that looks set to rise as increasing numbers from the EU continue to come over here. The revelation is of course badly timed in the view of all those who want to keep Britain in the EU but a refreshing dose of honesty for everyone else.
Our benefits system is far too generous at the best of times and to take a bloc the size of the EU and effectively say that anyone could come here and make use of it was madness right from the start.
Prime Minister David Cameron wants us to believe that after his fatuous exercise in “negotiations” with other EU leaders this gross abuse will be stopped.
The British people know better: we have heard it all before.
The only thing that will stop people who have never paid a penny into our economy milking it for all they are worth because they are legally allowed to do so is to put a stop to the charade and leave altogether. That moment cannot come soon enough.
Hands off our pensions
NOT many senior politicians in the Conservative Party are distinguishing themselves at the moment but Chancellor George Osborne is being irresponsible on two counts.
When he is not attempting to help his friend David Cameron terrify us into voting to stay in the EU, he is putting the final nail in the coffin of the British pensions industry having repeatedly cut the lifetime allowance threshold before paying higher tax.
What possible justification does Mr Osborne have for this? The Conservative Party should be encouraging people to save for their old age, not using them as some kind of cash cow.
Gordon Brown was rightly condemned by the Tories when he started his own stealth raids on pensions in 1997 so why is Mr Osborne, of all people, following suit?.
Boy, what nonsense!
AND so the madness continues... now we are not to be allowed to advertise for a “paperboy” or “handyman” or anything specifying gender in case someone somewhere gets upset.
What kind of a society bans the use of the word “barmaid”? It’s enough to drive you to drink.
