
Brussels is HELL-BENT on undermining women's rights, Ukip's SUZANNE EVANS
WHY should women vote to leave the EU? Because not only is it incapable of standing up for our rights it seems hell-bent on undermining them.
Take the ludicrous "Tampon Tax". The EU, in its infinite stupidity, sanitary products are "luxury" items and makes us pay VAT on them. Equally crazy was its decision to ban car insurance companies from giving discounts to women - so the cost of our premiums rocketed.
Our weekly shop is about 20 per cent higher than it should be because of the EU's trade and agriculture policies; the levies and taxes it puts on gas and electricity bills have forced over six million of our households into fuel poverty; and uncontrolled EU immigration puts intolerable pressure on our public services such as maternity care.
One in six of all babies born in the EU are now born in Britain. Twentyseven per cent of those babies have a foreign mother. The situation is so dire that last year 575 pregnant women turned up to give birth at their chosen maternity unit only to be told: "You can't come in, we're already full." Imagine the horror: 575 women in pain, in labour, frightened for themselves and their unborn child, having to find somewhere else to give birth.
More babies leads to more demand for school places. England needs another 250,000 primary school places to meet demand. Last year 100,000 children missed out on their first choice of secondary school. Carry on like this and we will need between 800,000 and 900,000 extra school places by 2024.
Given how cash-strapped our public services are because of the pressure of EU migration, perhaps the EU might let us keep more of our own money? No chance. Last year we had to fork out an extra £1.7billion for the EU over and above our £350million a week gross membership fee. We have already given £9billion in loans to bail out the euro but it will not be enough.
Then there is the £20billion black hole in the EU accounts. Guess who will be expected to help plug that? This is billions of pounds that should be funding our NHS, emergency services, schools, care homes and social housing provision, all services we women care most about, which is going to fund the EU gravy train instead.
"But we need the EU to protect women's rights!" squeals the Remain camp. No we don't. The first Equal Pay Act in Britain was signed three years before we even joined the EU. We had already passed the Abortion Act and the Divorce Reform Act and made the contraceptive pill free on the NHS.
Soon after joining we passed the Sex Discrimination Act, the Employment Protection Act and the Domestic Violence Act, while Margaret Thatcher became Britain's first female prime minister, all without any help from the EU.
Britain made female genital mutilation illegal in 1985. Brussels did nothing until 27 years later.
Maternity rights EU-style are a joke compared with the UK. The EU mums-to-be should have 14 weeks' maternity leave paid at a rate equivalent to sick pay. Under UK law a whole year's maternity leave is on offer, paid for at least 39 weeks, and at a level much higher than sick pay.
As for equal pay, well the EU is a basket case on this, it cannot even uphold equal pay within its own organisations. Last year the Get Britain Out campaign group revealed women working within the big EU institutions are paid nearly £13,000 a year less than men on average.
The European Central Bank was the worst offender: most of the top jobs went to men and female managers were paid nearly £8,000 less per month than their male counterparts.
The trouble with Brussels is that too much power resides in the hands of men and, worse still, men who are failed politicians from failed communist states where women's rights are of little consequence. Men from Lithuania, for instance, where it is still legal for a man to rape his wife, and from Bulgaria, where rape cases are only prosecuted if the rape victim can prove she fought back against her attacker.
Matters will get worse. We are currently paying £2billion to help Albania, Serbia, Montenegro, Macedonia and Turkey join the EU, meaning a much larger percentage of the EU population - and the vote in the EU institutions - will soon consist of people originating from countries where opposition to women's rights is the norm.
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has slammed abortion, called birth control "treason" and dismissed the idea of gender equality. Fifty-five per cent of the Serbian population doesn't believe men and women are equal. Like Lithuania, law-enforcement authorities in Albania refuse to accept spousal rape is a crime.
What chance do we have of seeing our rights advanced by the EU when this lot get in and have their say? Arguably the EU is already trashing the best interests of women by offering asylum to millions of migrant men arriving in Europe by boat from misogynist countries across the Mediterranean.
Sweden, once the most genderequal and welcoming nation on the planet, is now the rape capital of Europe. Last month this newspaper published a report by Swedish police admitting migrants committed the majority of sex attacks in public places.
If the EU really cared about women it would scrap the Schengen open-borders zone tomorrow. Schengen aids and abets a £4billion human trafficking industry in which women and girls from the poorest EU nations are the main victims but rather than admit that it made a mistake the EU prefers to allow vile criminals to profit from the misery of young girls, such as 12-year-old Anna, from Bulgaria, sold by her parents and forced into prostitution in the Netherlands.
Her EU passport made it easy for her traffickers: no border checks meant no awkward questions. Schengen is why the International Organisation for Migration it is now easier to smuggle humans across the EU than drugs or stolen cars. If the EU really cared about women it would also let us prevent rapists and violent misogynists coming into our country. Who can forget the tragic case of 14-year-old Alice Gross, killed by Latvian Arnis Zalkalns, who was allowed into the UK despite having previously killed his wife? But this is just one of countless avoidable tragedies. Fifty EU criminals alone have committed a litany of serious offences in Britain: 14 killings, nine murders, 13 sex crimes, seven rapes, as well as robberies, thefts, burglaries and drug offences.
ONLY a vote to leave will end this madness. Only a vote to leave will enable us to take back control of our money, our borders, our laws, our Parliament, our public services, our rights and freedoms.
Women have nothing to lose and everything to gain from voting to leave the EU. A vote to leave is a vote for a safer, brighter future for every man, woman and child in our country.
BRITAIN'S GENDER EQUALITY MILESTONES
1870: The Married Women's Property Act gives married women the right to own property.
1907: Women eligible for election on to borough and county councils.
1918: Women over 30 given the vote and women over 21 allowed to stand for Parliament.
1919: Nancy Astor becomes the first female MP to take her seat.
1923: The Matrimonial Causes Act allows women and men the same grounds to ask for divorce.
1928: Women granted the same voting rights as men.
1961: The contraceptive pill is made available through the NHS.
1965: Barbara Castle becomes the first female minister of state.
1967: Abortion is decriminalised.
1970: The Equal Pay Act makes it illegal to pay a woman less than a man for the same job.
1975: The Sex Discrimination Act makes it illegal to discriminate against women in work, education and training. The Employment Protection Act makes it illegal to sack a woman for being pregnant and introduces legal requirements on maternity provision.
1976: The Domestic Violence Act allows women to obtain a court order against a violent husband or partner.
1979: Margaret Thatcher becomes Britain's first female prime minister.
1985: The Prohibition of Female Circumcision Act makes female genital mutilation illegal.
1994: Rape in marriage is made a crime.
