
Migrant crisis is putting whole of Europe in danger
An American academic has warned that the EU faces an unprecedented threat from the vast number of young male migrants who have arrived in recent months.
Countries such as Sweden and Germany that have taken in large numbers of migrants now have significantly more men than women.
According to Dr Valerie Hudson this alone is a recipe for higher crime.
But we cannot discount the fact that these migrants are also coming from an alien culture.
The dangers are already obvious. In Germany a wave of sex attacks over the New Year was perpetrated by migrants who showed no regard for their victims or the law.
The threat is compounded by the possibility of jihadists using the crisis as a cover to sneak operatives into Europe.
Even if only a tiny minority of the migrants identify with terrorist groups the risk is still unacceptably high.
There are still those labouring under the delusion that these people are refugees. They are not.
Historically when refugees have fled persecution they have overwhelmingly been women, children and the elderly.
What we witnessed in 2015 – something which shows no sign of stopping in 2016 – was the mass movement of young men.
These are migrants coming to Europe to further their own interests, not vulnerable people in need of sanctuary. We owe them nothing.
Europe’s leaders need to stop ushering in ever more of these new arrivals and start doing something about the problems caused by their obsession with open borders.
Paris police got it right
Paris yesterday marked the first anniversary of the attacks on the offices of satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.
A year on from those dreadful events Europe’s anti-terror forces are still on tenterhooks.
This was graphically demonstrated in the French capital as police shot dead a man who was wearing a fake suicide vest and soldiers were deployed on to the streets.
The officers involved had little choice but to shoot to kill.
While his bomb may not have been real he was still waving a knife, shouting jihadist slogans and carrying an IS flag.
As a spokeswoman for France’s interior ministry said: “The security forces showed true professionalism and vigilance.”
The police must do everything in their power to keep the public safe.
In need of a name change
Wednesday night’s instalment of Midsomer Murders failed to live up to its name.
For the first time in the show’s 18-year history every single character survived to the end of the episode.
Does this not rather defeat the whole point?
