
Stick it to the EU: The crusade for freedom begins today
PICK UP your copy of today's for a free sticker to display proudly in your window as the nation unites to strike a mighty blow for freedom and democracy.
The Vote Leave referendum campaign began in earnest yesterday and as this newspaper’s crusade for Britain to quit the EU approaches its climax, every one of our readers has a crucial role to play. 
Over the next 10 weeks display this sticker proudly in your window at home or in your car. 
Show everyone how passionately you care about our nation’s future and help inspire them to Vote Leave on June 23. 
With one voter in five undecided, readers will be pivotal in ensuring that Britain seizes this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to break free of the shackles of the EU and its undemocratic pursuit of establishing an all-powerful federal superstate. 
Today we urge every reader to become a recruiting sergeant for the most important battle this country has fought in 70 years. 
A sea of stickers will demonstrate vividly that the British people are united in their determination to regain our country’s sovereign status. 
As Winston Churchill declared: When there is no enemy within, the enemies outside cannot hurt you. 
We must show the world that standing shoulder to shoulder we are shrugging off the scares and lies from the Remain campaign and the dire threats from doom-mongers at home and abroad who have a vested interest in keeping us chained to the EU’s yoke. 
Let us heed only those honest men and women who are prepared to tell the truth – and although we never felt this would need to be said, it is with great sadness that the has to warn you that the British Government does not sit in that honourable camp. 
This week, two men have encapsulated the most fundamental issue which is at the heart of the decision Britain must make; one is the billionaire investor George Soros, the other is the President of the European Council, Donald Tusk. 
Politically they could hardly be further apart but in their analysis of the crisis which is engulfing the EU they speak as one. 
Mr Soros warned that the EU is in mortal danger of collapse if it doesn’t spend at least £163.25billion to stem the flow of millions of immigrants into Greece and to house those already on EU soil. 
Mr Tusk warned that the migrant crisis is a never-ending story and an easy solution to the flood of Africans arriving in Italy is virtually impossible. 
They may be curious bedfellows but they are united in alerting Europe to the chilling scenario which can only worsen during the summer. 
And yet the EU does not listen. 
Already a deal has been forged under which 75 million Muslims from Turkey could soon be handed the right of visa-free travel across the EU. 
Thankfully, because we had the presence of mind to opt out from the Schengen open borders agreement, the Turks will have to stop at Calais for now. 
But if we do not Vote Leave we will be at the mercy of other EU countries who would be free to grant migrants EU passports which would give them free entry to Britain and access to our welfare system, hospitals, schools, doctors and dentists. 
This small country of ours is already bursting at the seams with 65 million people. 
We just cannot take any more. 
Those who say the EU will never do anything so underhand as finding a way to circumvent what limited powers we currently have to control our borders need to remind themselves of what an undemocratic institution the EU is. 
When the people of Holland voted down the EU plan to enlarge itself by doing a deal with the Ukraine, what did Brussels do? 
It told the Dutch their referendum result would be ignored. 
The EU has treated referendum results in France, Ireland and Greece with equal disdain. 
Every day, by its actions and its words, the EU proves it cannot be trusted to act in the best interests of its people. 
As ever, the choice facing Britain on June 23 was crystallised by Nigel Farage, who told the European parliament: “I think the will of the people is changing politics in a way that makes all of you in this room deeply fearful, and so you should be.” 
His stirring speech echoed the views of millions of Britons: we want to do trade with other European countries, we want to live in peace and friendship with them, but we don’t want to do that by belonging to a political union we were never given the chance to vote for, with one flag, one anthem, one currency and a highly paid president. 
The argument is simple. 
Today the calls on every reader to display our crusade sticker. 
Do your bit for Britain – your country has never needed you more.
