
Foreign Secretary has made a great case for leaving the EU, STEPHEN POLLARD
IT'S NOT often I’m simply baffled by an argument made by a politician.
To be honest, there’s very little that’s ever original about politics or politicians. Most good ideas are based on common sense and it’s usually only the mad ideas that are truly original. But at the weekend I heard something that was truly original.
And it didn’t come from a source that is usually associated with madness. Think of Philip Hammond, the Foreign Secretary, and it’s unlikely any image will spring to mind. Mr Hammond is blessed with what one might charitably describe as an ability to bring calm.
Uncharitably, that means he is the embodiment of the politician as manager rather than thinker – a man who leaves no discernible trace in whatever job he does and who never anything remotely interesting.
But as Foreign Secretary he is, nominally at least, at the heart of our so-called membership renegotiation with the EU. And on Sunday he gave a big set-piece interview to Andrew Marr that was supposed to help convince us that we should back David Cameron’s determination that we remain in the EU.
And he was, to put it mildly, interesting. I thought I’d heard all the Remain arguments, which revolve around fear of what might happen if we leave. But I was wrong. Mr Hammond came up with an argument that was so original, unique and unexpected that I’m still not sure what he actually meant to say.
According to the Foreign Secretary, a key reason why we should stay in the EU is that if we leave, it might fall apart. Yes, really. He appears to think a persuasive argument for us to vote to stay is that if we leave, others will too.
As he put it: the “contagion” of our quitting the EU would soon spread to other member states and we would only be able to watch from the sidelines as the EU “lurches in very much the wrong direction”. Er, isn’t that the point? That’s not an argument to stay. It’s an argument to leave.
Since when did the British people have a duty to prop up the EU against other countries’ voters’ wishes to leave? One of the reasons I want to leave is because the EU is already going in the wrong direction – towards disaster, I would argue.
Being on the sidelines, as Mr Hammond puts it, watching and apart, is somewhere I want us to be – rather than joined together with the lemmings as they jump off the cliff. You see, we’ve tried reform from the inside, haven’t we?
For decades we have tried to stop the rot: stop the drift to further federalism, stop the endemic corruption, stop the move to ever more corporatism and statism, stop the encroachment on our ability to govern ourselves. And much good it’s done.
The best reform package we can get is the Prime Minister’s pathetic excuse for a renegotiation deal. And that’s what they offer us when they are worried we will leave and are actually trying to persuade us to stay!
The Remain crowd talk about how the other members will hand us punishment beatings if we leave. At the weekend there was a report of tariff barriers being erected against us (ignoring, of course, that they would be illegal under World Trade Organisation rules).
It’s the usual fear tactics from the Eurofanatics. But turn that argument on its head. If that’s how they treat us when they’re trying to keep us, imagine how we will be treated if we stay, having had our bluff called and capitulated.
Our negotiating stock as a member state will have been shot to pieces. When they resume the push to an ever closer union – the driving force in the EU – they will all know they have us over a barrel.
Poor, hapless Philip Hammond. As the interview went on, his supposed argument for remaining became even more surreal. If we leave, he said: “The countries remaining in the EU will be looking over their shoulder at people in their own countries saying, ‘Well, if the Brits can do it, why can’t we?’” Think that one through for a moment.
According to Mr Hammond’s own words, the only thing holding the EU together is the membership of a country – the UK – whose people look like they want to leave. And if we were to go, other voters in other countries will also want to leave. So we should stay. To stop them.
Isn’t that the most perfect illustration of the contempt for democracy and for ordinary voters that lies at the heart of the whole project? If we leave, people in other countries might realise they could too.
And even though that might be their wish, they shouldn’t. So we should make sure they don’t, by staying. See what I mean about being baffled? On the one hand, Mr Hammond was being more candid than any Eurofanatic to date.
His words revealed the real mindset of those who insist we have to stay. But on the other, I can’t imagine for a moment that the Foreign Secretary actually intended to be so clear. It looks like he is deeply confused and simply out of his depth.
No wonder – because until he became Foreign Secretary, Mr Hammond was widely regarded as a Eurosceptic. But like so many before him, when handed the trappings of office, his previous principles somehow got mislaid.
And now he is campaigning for us to stay. If it wasn’t so serious, it would be hilarious – the moment the Foreign Secretary thought he was arguing to stay, but used an argument to leave.
