DAILY MAIL COMMENT: A dumping ground for the EU's criminals

Even the European Union’s most purblind defenders cannot conceivably justify the Home Office’s profoundly disturbing failure to return foreign prisoners to their countries of origin.

For according to a highly critical report published today by the Home Affairs Committee, Britain is abysmally incapable of deporting more than 13,000 ‘foreign national offenders’, as officialdom terms them – enough to populate a small town.

No fewer than 5,789 of them, including rapists, robbers, paedophiles and drug dealers, are free to roam our streets, having served their sentences.

The rest are in prison, at a cost of £40,000 a head. And two of the main countries from which they arrived? It turns out that 983 are from Poland while 635 are Romanians – who, remember, were only allowed into Britain in 2014.

The failure to deport these people is an indictment of the EU, which has a prisoner transfer agreement under which Britain should be able to send home jailed Europeans.

No wonder the committee warns that the persistent failure to send these inmates back is ‘undermining confidence’ in the UK’s EU membership.

Meanwhile Michael Gove declares that, as Justice Secretary, he has been forced to allow in people with criminal records and even terror suspects under a ruling from the European Court of Justice.

It is now ten years since the then Home Secretary, Charles Clarke, was sacked after his department was found to have released more than 1,000 foreign criminals into the community at the end of their sentences.

The situation is much worse now. Remain supporters should ask themselves how Britain has allowed itself to become a dumping ground for others’ criminals.

Far from making us safer, the EU prevents us, as Mr Gove has confirmed, from securing our own borders.

After a welcome period of silence, the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, has seen fit to enter the referendum debate.

She probably thinks she is being tactful by telling us ‘you’ll never get the results you want if you’re not in the room’.

But British voters do not take kindly to being told what to do by Mrs Merkel, any more than they liked being lectured by the US President, Barack Obama, whose citizens would never in a million years accept being ruled by the leftish, undemocratic, supranational construct that is the EU.

The German Chancellor should have noted how badly Mr Obama’s intervention went down, and held her tongue.

For this is the woman who last year gravely worsened the refugee crisis by her open-door policy. Nor has ‘being in the room’ been any help to Greece and other impoverished southern European nations who find themselves caught in the vice-like grip of the euro, under which Germany is doing very nicely, thank you.

How strange that all the economists and politicians who warn of Armageddon under Brexit haven’t seen fit to say that most of the countries in the EU are now financial basket cases.

Mind your manners

How depressingly typical of the increasingly pathetic Jeremy Corbyn to look on with a smirk as his loutish, bullying supporters jeered and booed the BBC’s political editor, Laura Kuenssberg.

Instead of defending the free Press, and in this case a hugely capable woman who upholds high standards of impartiality, Mr Corbyn responds to unfavourable coverage by feeling sorry for himself and trying to discredit the messenger.

If the Labour leader had one scintilla of decency, he would apologise to Miss Kuenssberg and instruct his thuggish followers to mind their manners.