
We need Brexit to stop Roma gangsters from stealing taxpayers' money
ROMA gangsters have been fleecing our benefits system and using the proceeds to build themselves palatial mansions back home.
British police have tried to put an end to the rampant theft of taxpayers’ money but have failed to stamp out the practice. 

EU membership has seen Britain open its borders to countries where the people are cripplingly poor and criminal gangs run rings round the authorities. Allowing citizens from places such as Romania and Bulgaria not only to come here but to claim handouts has left the welfare system vulnerable to exploitation by criminals from overseas. 

The handouts to which they are entitled under EU law are worth a fortune when sent back home where the cost of living is far lower than it is in Britain. The rewards on offer for stealing from the system are even greater as the presence of these vast mansions attests. 
We need to secure our borders, stop European citizens from accessing handouts and reform our human rights laws to make it easier to deport foreign criminals. We can only do these things if we vote to leave the EU. Stay in and these Roma gangs, not to mention other criminals like them, will continue to take this country for all it is worth. 
Since new pension freedoms were introduced last April a total of £6billion has been taken out of savings funds. 

Choosing to use savings to pay off a mortgage or invest in shares or property is a common sense decision. The Government should be commended for giving people the right to do what they want with their own money. 

When the reforms were announced there were suggestions in some quarters that people would waste their life savings on sports cars and other pointless luxuries. This patronising objection to the plans exposed a dividing line in politics between those who trust us to spend our money and those who want the state to dictate everything we do. 

By pushing ahead with the plans this Government proved it is on the right side of that divide. The popularity of this measure just goes to show that George Osborne made the correct decision.
