DAILY MAIL COMMENT: With trade booming, why talk us down?

Over the last few weeks, voters have been blitzed by apocalyptic predictions about a post-Brexit economy from banks who triggered the 2008 financial crisis, like Goldman Sachs and JP Morgan.

Meanwhile David Cameron and George Osborne have missed no chance to talk down this country's prospects.

Economists and Establishment figures, all of whom wanted us to join the euro, have joined in the bombardment.

Now, a man who has a better right than any of them to speak on this subject has given his verdict. In a letter to JCB's 6,000 UK employees, Lord Bamford declares himself 'very confident we can stand on our own two feet'.

He points out the EU's 'shrinking role in the world economy', and declares he will be voting to leave.

In support of Lord Bamford's positive outlook, yesterday saw the release of some of the best export figures for many years, with the UK selling more to the rest of the world than the EU for the 20th month a row.

Mr Cameron enjoys giving speeches in front of JCB diggers, but he really ought to have been listening to the JCB boss

Time's up, Sir Philip

Sir Philip Green finds himself with more and more serious questions to answer about his role in the collapse of BHS.

As its proprietor, he extracted vast sums from the business and left a gaping hole in its pension fund, before selling it for £1 to a serial bankrupt, Dominic Chappell, who knew nothing about retailing.

It now emerges that two contenders who did know something about retailing were interested in trying to make a go of BHS, and Sir Philip may have been actively involved in putting them off.

He fervently denies this. But as further murky revelations emerge about his stewardship of the company, Sir Philip now owes a sober, factual and comprehensive explanation to the 11,000 employees who lost their jobs and the 21,000 members of the pension fund who face severe cuts in their income.

The bluster, prevarication and threats with which Sir Philip often responds to well-merited criticism will not do when he gives evidence next week to MPs.

Today, a growing number of parliamentarians is calling for his knighthood to be stripped from him.

This paper will wait to hear what he has to say. But as Alex Brummer declares on Page Seven, this whole affair stinks to high heaven.

The guilty parties

Iain Duncan Smith has exploded the myth, so eagerly propagated in recent days by David Cameron, that Britain can send home jobless EU migrants after six months.

As the former Work and Pensions Secretary today tells the Mail, when he urged the Home Office to do this, it replied with unutterable feebleness that 'we just don't have the capacity'.

Meanwhile George Osborne has had to admit the 'threat' posed by Brexit to pensioners is likewise a myth. Far from losing £32,000, as a Remain poster of an empty purse claimed, they benefit by law from a 'triple lock' on their incomes.

Both sides in this campaign have been guilty of egregious misrepresentations, but it's difficult to avoid the conclusion that the Remain campaign's are far worse.