
The patriotic vote is to leave, Kate Hoey
I LOVE my country and have watched with growing alarm the way we have been subjected to the anti-democratic rules of the European Union.
Even those who voted to join the Common Market in 1975 now realise that what they thought they were voting for has been totally altered with treaty after treaty forced through and not a single person in the UK having a say.

Just imagine an independent, free United Kingdom again.
This is no longer a dream – it could be a reality if you vote to leave in the upcoming referendum on June 23.
As we see Prime Minister David Cameron desperately threatening the public with doomsday predictions to try to scare us all into voting to remain in the EU we know we can win and leave. Clearly he is rattled.

He must know that the British public are not being fooled by his sham negotiations and talk of reform.

Despite the dodgy dossiers from organisations that depend on EU funding, despite the self-serving rhetoric of an American President who would never allow his own country to give up such control, despite the Government-produced propaganda pamphlet being sent to every household with £9million of our money, the British public have more common sense and the threats will not work.

This is because we can see through the bluster and stand up to the bullying.
We want a future where we can determine our own laws and not be dictated to by Brussels.

Those of us campaigning across party divides may disagree on what those laws should be after we leave the EU but we will decide in our own parliament and if the public do not like it they can boot out the government at an election – that is the beauty of democracy. No one can boot out an unelected EU commissioner.

Those campaigning to remain betray their lack of confidence in their own country. They say that the UK is too small, too weak to survive outside the bureaucratic colossus. They are so wrong.

We know that as the fifth largest economy in the world, with a seat on the UN Security Council and ancient friendships across the globe including the Commonwealth who we so disgracefully abandoned, we would not just survive but would prosper as an independent power.

We do not need to “share” our sovereignty with the other EU countries and we have no desire to enforce laws upon them.

I was elected to represent the constituency of Vauxhall in London, not Bulgaria, not Slovenia. So I make an appeal to the millions of Labour voters in the country who feel uneasy about being on the same side of the argument as David Cameron and George Osborne – you are right to feel uneasy because they are wrong.

The EU hinders our powers to support our industries, such as steel. Leave and we can make it happen. The EU imposes laws that can make it harder to enforce the minimum wage fairly when migrant labour undercuts wages.

Leave and we can make it happen. The EU stops us controlling our own borders and choosing who we let into our country from the continent. Leave and we can make it happen.
There has always been a long and proud tradition in the Labour Party that has rejected the anti-democratic restrictions of the EU. Major figures from Hugh Gaitskell to Barbara Castle, Peter Shore and of course Tony Benn spoke passionately against losing control to this unaccountable body dominated by global corporations.

It is a shame that Jeremy Corbyn has not remained true to his long-held position of being anti-EU.

I understand that Corbyn feels he must appease those in his party with different views but for decades he voted alongside me on every occasion to oppose the extension of EU powers.

Undoubtedly if he had not been elected as leader of the Labour Party he would be campaigning alongside those of us in the Labour movement who want to leave the EU. Labour’s ex-minister Frank Field has correctly noted the disengagement that so many former Labour voters have felt from our party and the feeling that we no longer care about their fears.

It has been suggested that 40 per cent of Labour supporters will be voting to leave. And I know that while the Labour Party is officially campaigning to remain there is little enthusiasm, even from Labour MPs.
Most know that the sky will not fall on our heads the day after we vote to leave. All of our laws would remain the same until we chose to change them – and that would be our choice.

Labour is out of touch with the aspirations of its natural supporters and our position on the EU is shameful.

Once we break free from Brussels rule our politics would be revitalised. No longer would people tell us on the doorstep that there is no point in voting because our Parliament has given too many powers away. No longer could the Government pass the blame for its failures on decisions made in Europe.

They would have to set forward their clear agenda, as would the Labour Party, and the public would be able to decide.

A bright future awaits our country if we leave on June 23. A future which we can shape ourselves and save the billions of pounds we give this unaccountable organisation.

The patriotic vote is to leave.
