DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Mass migration and our quality of life

Raising serious concerns about our national identity and quality of life, England's population is set to rise by 4million in eight years – with migration and births to foreign-born mothers accounting for two-thirds of the growth.

No, this isn't wild guesswork by the Leave campaign, trying to match the Remain camp's scaremongering.

These are yesterday's cautious calculations by the Office for National Statistics, based on the assumption that the number of arrivals from inside and outside the EU will fall.

Yet even if migration does decline – a very big if – the country's official number-crunchers predict that the population of our overcrowded capital alone will soar 13.7 per cent to almost 10million by 2024. That's 1.1million extra people needing housing, jobs, healthcare, public transport and school places.

And remember that such projections are likely to be significant underestimates, since they take no account of asylum-seekers or the countless illegal entrants who slip under the official radar.

Only yesterday a Briton was arrested at Chichester marina, West Sussex, allegedly smuggling 17 Albanians into the UK. Who knows how many others go undetected?

Meanwhile, migrants continue to flock across the Mediterranean to Italy, with 6,000 rescued since Monday (though, tragically, others drowned) – as an Italian naval commander warns: 'The flow of migration is intensifying.'

So much for EU officials' claims of success for their £4.7billion deal with Turkey to stop the influx into Greece.

And now Germany wants to divert 10 per cent of the EU budget to the refugee emergency – a crisis hugely exacerbated, remember, by Angela Merkel's reckless promise to welcome all-comers.

Today, ONS figures are expected to show that net immigration added more than 300,000 to the UK population last year, with almost half arriving under the EU's freedom of movement rules.

Do we really want to remain part of this crazy system, which insists everyone given EU citizenship has the right to settle in the UK? Or, on June 23, should we vote to reclaim our borders, before Britain buckles under the weight of numbers?

Crisis of credibility

Meanwhile, David Cameron continues to crank up Project Fear. Not content with warning that Brexit will heighten the risk of genocide and war, cripple the economy and bring house prices crashing, he now says pensions, the NHS and social care will suffer if we vote to leave.

Can he really not see how he diminishes himself and the dignity of his position by his hysterical scaremongering?

Only three months ago, this same Mr Cameron was suggesting he might lead the Out campaign if he failed to secure 'fundamental, far-reaching change', saying: 'I will never argue that Britain couldn't survive outside the European Union.'

Yet now, abetted by Cabinet Secretary 'Sir Cover-Up' Jeremy Heywood, he has mobilised the entire Whitehall machine – once a byword for impartiality – to try to frighten Leave voters out of their wits.

Indeed, visitors to Government websites are greeted by warnings of the dangers of Brexit. The official Treasury site displays the dramatic message: 'UK economy into RECESSION if Britain leaves the EU' – with the word 'recession' in blood-red, cracked capital letters, as in the title sequence of a horror film.

While Mr Cameron adopts tactics like these (which Leavers say breach electoral law) it's no wonder a poll finds only 18 per cent trust him on the EU, and just 2 per cent rate George Osborne a leader.

For the sake of his office, if not his own credibility, the Prime Minister should stop insulting the public's intelligence – and start treating voters like adults.