DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Why surrender our heritage to Germany?

The London Stock Exchange – for 215 years the cornerstone of Britain’s free-trading economy – will fall into German hands unless urgent action is taken.

On Wednesday, when Britain’s attention was focused on the Budget, the board of the Stock Exchange announced a deal to merge this historic institution with its rival in Frankfurt, the Deutsche Boerse.

If the £21billion merger goes through, the Germans will have the upper hand. The new organisation will be run by the head of the Frankfurt exchange, whose shareholders will control 54.4 per cent of the stock, and report its profits in euros.

Senior UK business figures – well aware that Germany is envious of London’s status as financial capital of Europe – have condemned the plans.

John Longworth, who was forced out as director of the British Chambers of Commerce for backing Brexit, asked the obvious question: ‘Can you imagine Germany selling BMW to Britain?’

No, we cannot. Germany and France automatically block foreign takeovers of their own precious national assets.

Britain, in contrast, has a dismal track record of surrendering key industries to overseas conglomerates. Our energy supplies, for example, are now effectively controlled by the French government, which runs the electricity giant EDF. Look at the chaos that has produced!

The London Stock Exchange is the emblem of Britain’s dynamic, free-market capitalism. As such, it is resented by the sclerotic, risk-averse countries of continental Europe.

Indeed, the DNA of the British and German economies are totally different and there have to be profound questions as to whether this merger would work.

How interesting, then, that no major British politician has drawn attention to an issue of such importance to our future.Given how much is at stake, this is nothing short of shameful.

Could it be that the Government is embarrassed by the fact that this merger shows the Germans are not worried by the prospect of Britain leaving Europe?

A disturbing deal

Turkey and the EU yesterday reached an agreement meaning that, from midnight tonight, all migrants arriving in Greece will – if all goes to plan – be sent back to the Turkish mainland.

Meanwhile, Turkey’s application to join the EU is back on the agenda, though negotiations may proceed more slowly than President Erdogan had hoped.

A more immediate consequence of the deal, however, is that 77million Turks will soon be free to visit most EU countries without a visa. These countries do not include Britain, which is not part of the Schengen area of free travel.

But we know from bitter experience that the EU’s grand schemes have a habit of spinning out of control. It would be foolish to conclude that UK borders will not be put under further stress.

Put simply, European ministers have been forced by the migrant crisis to accept measures that will further increase the movement of peoples from east to west. As Max Hastings writes on these pages, that is a disturbing prospect.

Bastion of bias

BBC coverage of the EU referendum has, on the whole, been admirably even-handed. But there is an exception: Newsnight, BBC2’s flagship current affairs programme.

A media watchdog has found that, in 40 editions of the show up to last weekend, 25 guests were in the ‘remain’ camp while only 14 supported Brexit.

Newsnight is edited and staffed by former Guardian journalists. Judged by these findings, they have brought their Left-wing bias with them – at licence-payers’ expense.