DAILY MAIL COMMENT: Migration - the issue that just won't go away

The vital issue of mass immigration – which the Prime Minister and the rest of the Remain camp have been so desperate to avoid discussing throughout the referendum campaign – exploded on to centre stage last night during an extraordinary television debate.

And if David Cameron had any previous doubts over how passionately the British people feel about the baleful consequences of our open door policy to migrants from inside the EU, they were thoroughly and vociferously dispelled.

Time and again in the BBC studio, he tried to bring the debate back to his favourite subject of the economy and apocalyptic predictions of how family incomes would plummet, jobs would disappear and our exports would collapse if we were to vote Leave.


But the audience was having none of it. They made clear that even if the Treasury’s dubious forecasts were to be believed (a very big ‘if’ for most of them) there were other things at stake – little things like democracy, accountability and, of course, border control.

Mr Cameron was subjected to a fusillade of awkward questions.

Why did he make a manifesto pledge to cut migration to the tens of thousands when he knew he couldn’t possibly deliver? Why did he call the referendum at all if he felt so vehemently that leaving would be so catastrophic? Why should he believe the EU will honour its commitments over restricting migrant benefits? How will he prevent the NHS and other services being overwhelmed if unfettered free movement continues?

Perhaps the unkindest cut was when one man called him ‘a 21st century Neville Chamberlain’, hailing an agreement with a dictatorship that would soon be overruled. The Prime Minister, normally an assured and unflappable public speaker was visibly shaken by this demonstration of democracy in action. But doesn’t he have only himself to blame?

The Remain camp has relied on an unremittingly negative message across this campaign, talking down Britain’s ability to survive outside the EU and talking up the supposedly dire consequences of leaving.

ut the British people are not easily intimidated and although a TV debate is hardly definitive, last night suggested that blatant scaremongering simply doesn’t wash with them. 

They know Britain was a proud, independent trading nation for centuries before the EU was ever thought of. Is it really impossible that we could be one again?

There are just three days left for Mr Cameron to make the positive case for staying in the EU. If he doesn’t, many voters may conclude that the case is simply too weak to sell.

A measured debate?

For all their entreaties to Brexit supporters to tone down the rhetoric following the appalling and utterly senseless killing of MP Jo Cox, it was the Remain campaigners who resumed hostilities with a vengeance yesterday.

Within hours of the truce agreed after the murder expiring, Chancellor George Osborne was on the TV sofas stoking up Project Fear with new warnings of economic meltdown if we leave the EU.

Meanwhile his fellow ‘Remainer’ Alastair Campbell, who just days ago urged both sides to do ‘less shouting and more thinking’, ranted on about ‘the nasty Brexit Lie Machine run by tax dodgers and multi-millionaire liars’.

This, by the way, from the man who – as Tony Blair’s chief spin doctor – did more than anyone in recent times to poison the wells of civilised political debate, with his negative briefings, misinformation and sneering bully-boy tactics.

Is this the Remain campaign’s idea of measured debate?