Leaving the EU will make Britain great once again
THE British showed the world what we are made of in 1940.
I believe that fire still burns in our hearts and I pray that June 23 will be the day when Britain once again becomes Great Britain. I’m passionately excited about this huge opportunity we have to take back control of our country, take our place on the world stage and build a bright future for British businesses to flourish outside the EU.
But it is not just my business head that wants to leave the EU – my heart does too. I’m extremely proud of my late father, who fought at Tobruk, Libya, in 1941. He wasn’t a hero, just a lad from Chatham who knew what had to be done and got on with it in that stolid way his generation did.
As a 20-year-old Tommy I doubt he ever even considered it but he was fighting for our sovereignty and freedom. He suffered a lifetime of illness for that cause – many more paid the ultimate price.
I will never forget that and I see it as a dishonour to the Greatest Generation that everything they fought for is being eroded by our EU membership. My business is a small manufacturing company, operating from a rented factory on a wartime industrial estate in Kent.
Our draughty unit is not a glamorous looking building but it is big and it is cheap and interesting things get built inside it.
Eighty per cent of our production is exported but almost none of it goes to EU countries, partly because nobody seems to have any money but also because our products fall foul of an EU directive.
While it is not actually banned it makes selling and using our products within the EU difficult so customers opt to spend their money elsewhere. What do we make that so offends the EU rule-makers?
The clue is that my business is called The British Hovercraft Company. Yes, I’m a 36-year-old mother of an eight-year-old daughter and I build hovercraft. Not the cross-Channel type that once plied their trade to Calais but more modest craft used for purposes such as survey work in tidal estuaries, tenders for luxury yachts and ice-rescue on frozen rivers.
It is a quintessentially British invention. Our company name is one of the best decisions we ever made. Foreign clients tell me the word British to them quality, reliability and trust because British engineering is admired around the world. But my company does not need the EU.
In fact we would be much better off without it. For us to be free to fulfil our full potential we need trade deals with countries that matter. Wealthy countries, countries with growing economies, emerging nations and our friends in the Commonwealth.
We lose so many sales to these countries because the EU has failed to negotiate suitable trade deals. Last year I had an inquiry from a Brazilian businessman who wished to order five small hovercraft for an activity centre in Sao Paulo.
Purchase price £50,000 – plus duty on top of £42,000 because Brazil is not an EU-approved country. Needless to say the deal did not go ahead. Britain is simply not allowed to make its own trade deals and this prevents us from selling our products, bringing money into the UK, growing the business and employing more staff.
Ignore the scaremongering. Leaving the EU is an incredible opportunity for UK business, one that we of all nations can exploit so we thrive in a fast-changing global marketplace. We can do this! We have the world’s fifth largest economy and we are the 11th biggest manufacturing nation.
British products and services are in demand all round the world so we must make it cheaper and more straightforward for our trading partners to deal with us. But it’s not just about business or economics.
I have watched horrified at the mishandling of the migrant crisis, seen the misery, economic damage and discord it has caused between the nations of Europe. I have watched it lead to the rise of far-Right parties in countries such as France, Greece and Finland and I fear the demands made of this country by the EU could see similar parties gain momentum here.
It frustrates me to see the EU waste vast sums of our money on ridiculous laws and directives, vanity projects and mind-boggling corruption. Every year we send billions to an organisation that has not been audited in more than 20 years.
I am absolutely at a loss to understand how the Remain campaign can live with themselves in defending this. Let us save our money and spend it on hospitals, schools and the most vulnerable in society.
The EU makes our laws, takes our money and does so with no accountability to the British public. This is what we have our own MPs for and if they get it wrong we can kick them out after five years.
We’ve done pretty well on our own since the Romans went home and we’ve written the democratic blueprint for much of the modern world. How dare Brussels steal that democracy away from us?
British MEPs are powerless to influence the myriad laws that issue forth from Brussels – they are defeated and outvoted more than 86 per cent of the time. The Common Market was a great idea and if it had remained simply as a free market I wouldn’t be campaigning to leave.
But this power creep, this erosion of our democracy and sovereignty, isn’t what we signed up for and we need to get out while we still can.
