10 reasons why you must vote Brexit in Thursday’s crucial once in a lifetime referendum

Sun columnist urges readers to cast their votes to leave the EU and finally take control of our destiny

TEN reasons why I want you to vote Brexit on Thursday.

Look what 40 years of Europe has done to me.

1) Those two posh boys in Downing Street will be out of a job and we won’t have to listen to their lies about the world ending if we Brexit.

With Cameron and Osborne gone we can look forward to a Prime Minister who understands what it’s like for ordinary people when their child can’t get into a school of their choice as it’s too crowded, or worse, seeing Mum lying on a trolley for hours at a packed A&E.

2) Scotland will demand another referendum to leave the United Kingdom so it can stay in the EU – and everybody south of the border will say: “Don’t bother voting, just go.”

We can then stop sending English taxpayers’ money to Jockistan, as they receive ￡1,600 a year more per head than we do.

It would be cheaper for we wealth creators to burn a ￡50 note every other week.

3) We can introduce a modified Australian points system for immigration, which will stop our population growing by at least 250,000 a year.

That’s a new city the size of Wolverhampton.

Even the people of Wolverhampton would agree that one Wolverhampton is quite enough.

4) Gordon Brown and Tony Blair, two of the worst prime ministers in living memory, can be wheeled back to the embalmers.

Their crazy open-door policy, which they deliberately kept quiet about, let five million migrants into the country in a decade, changing some towns and cities for ever.

They can take John Major with them.

He almost single-handedly destroyed the Pound.

5) Brexit will signal the beginning of the end for the EU. Other countries will seek referendums and slowly it will revert to the original idea of a trade federation.

It will be bad news for Germany, who lost the war in 1945 but won the peace.

They will now not be able to send their one million migrants our way.

Mrs Merkel will be blamed till the end of time for her misjudgment.

6) We’ll be able to deport the 16,000 foreign criminals sitting in our jails, costing us ￡640million a year, without loopy European judges saying it’s a breach of their human rights to send them back to wherever they came from.

7) Labour voters will at last show they are not just cannon fodder for Corbyn and his Islington chums but want to be heard on the subject of immigration without having to face taunts of being racists or bigots.

Brexit’s win will be a triumph of the workers over their bosses.

8) When Greece goes bust (they pay less tax than Mrs Philip Green) it will quickly be followed by Italy and France heading to the bankruptcy courts, but our PM won’t be forced to bail them out.

Remember Cameron saying we didn’t have to put our hand in our pocket for Greece last time?

What happened?

We had to bung them ￡600million.

Never again.

9) We will be able to buy cheaper food from Australia, New Zealand and Canada instead of paying inflated prices because of EU tariffs.

Food is estimated to cost 20 per cent higher than necessary.

No more having to subsidise inefficient French farmers, cheating Italian wine growers or Bulgarian goatherds.

We can trade with 167 countries in the world that aren’t in the EU if we have to.

10) Perhaps most importantly, we will have our democracy back.

If we don’t like a policy we can change it.

If we don’t like a politician we can fire them.

Under Brussels that was impossible.

Under the EU, Britain has become a county council, not a sovereign nation.

That moment will be over.

For ever.