BREXIT Ian Botham teams up with Boris to say we should quit EU to stop the UK becoming ‘cluttered’

England cricketing legend Sir Ian has come out to bat for Vote Leave

CLUTCHING a pint in one hand and a cricket bat in the other Boris Johnson unveiled cricketing legend Sir Ian Botham as the latest member of the Vote Leave team.

‘Beefy’ Botham has come out to bat for Brexit, warning Britain could become ‘cluttered’ if it does not leave the European Union.

Joining the former London mayor on his battle bus they stopped off at a cricket club with Boris Johnson enthusiastically bowling and then going in to bat.

As these pictures show the pair then chatted about why they believe Brexit is best for Britain.

Sir Ian told Sky News: “We have a chance to govern ourselves again, look after our own borders. I just think we are losing our identity and eventually we'll get swallowed up.

He said he realised there could be "teething problems" if Britain voted to go it alone but said if we were being asked to join the EU now we’d "give it a very wide berth".

When asked about potential job losses in the event of a Brexit he replied: "If we stay, who's going to get those jobs?

"The people coming into our country, they don't seem to have to come over with a job, any qualifications, just turn up. I think it will get cluttered.

"If you want 100 million people in this country, then so be it if that's what you want, do it. But I don't think people really want that."

Also on the campaign trail yesterday, for the other side, were David Cameron and London mayor Sadiq Khan – just weeks after the Prime Minister slammed his links to extremists.

Eating a big slice of humble pie, Mr Cameron hailed Mr Khan as a “proud Brit” and said his London election victory over Tory Zac Goldsmith was proof Britain is the “best multi-faith, multi-ethnic opportunity democracy anywhere on Earth”.

At the cricket event in Chester-le-Street, County Durham, Mr Johnson refused to comment on the question of Mr Cameron and Mr Khan campaigning together.

He said: ”I’m not here to talk about personalities, and alliances and who talks to whom.

"My job in the next 23 days, whatever we have got left, is to get over our key messages.

"This is the only chance in our lifetimes to go for a new approach, a democratic approach, but still leading in Europe."