‘Brexit will boost our economy and cut the cost of BMWs and even brie’

Leaving Europe will provide a massive lift to UK finances says Professor Patrick Minford

PROJECT FEAR wants us to believe that coming out of the EU could be disastrous for UK trade. Here, a renowned economist gives an alternative view . . .

IT wasn’t so long ago that Britain was a nation that traded freely across the world.

Be it cars, a bottle of milk or a service such as marketing or finance, there were no barriers to where our exports ended up and certainly no extra taxes on imported goods.

Brexit would allow the UK to join the global market as a free trading nation, able to buy goods from across the world — and at cheaper world prices, too.

Why pay more when you can pay less?

When the UK joined the EU in the Seventies our economy was struggling and signing up to a level of protection on goods seemed the right thing to do.

Now we live in a different time. The EU has become more centralised and controlling, raising prices in agriculture and manufacturing by around ten per cent.

Goods are protected in these industries so mozzarella from the Italian coastal region of Campania, Italy, or a slice of French brie that has been imported to the UK, have an added tax stamped on them. EU farmers are able to sell their foods at higher prices.

However, these trading barriers create a wedge between prices on the world market and what Brits fork out for their weekly shop.

By remaining in the EU, Brits have to pay above standard global prices for goods that come from agriculture and manufacturing.

But would we continue to put up with these high prices if we left the EU? I don’t think so.

We’d stop listening to French farmers and instead the UK would help struggling farmers in our own country stand on their own two feet while protecting our beautiful rural environment in different ways.

Prices would fall by up to eight per cent

This will not only cost George Osborne and the British economy much less than the current Common Agricultural Policy, it will keep food prices low.

If we decided to leave, the UK would simply revert back to paying world prices for exports and imports.

Prices of goods would fall by up to eight per cent.

The cost of a BMW or the price tag of an imported fridge would suddenly drop and our resources would shift from manufacturing to services — raising living standards for all of us.

More importantly, our economy would be boosted by four per cent.

A huge 70 per cent of current UK trade is in goods exported outside the EU and in services such as advertising, law and education, where there is no interference from the EU. The world governs the value, and services such as PR fetch a price that a business is willing to pay.

