‘If it means I get my lightbulbs back, I want OUT’: Liz Hurley weighs in on Brexit debate as she shares saucy selfie

Actress hopes EU exit will bring back 60 watt lightbulbs and high-powered hairdryers

LIZ Hurley wants Britain to leave the EU so she can get her hands on 60 watt lightbulbs and high-powered hairdryers.

The actress/model, 50, admits she misses certain luxuries which have been phased out by European regulations.

She is now backing Brexit ahead of the upcoming referendum in June.

The Royals star made the admission in a column written for Spear’s Magazine, revealing she is not a fan of EU standard low energy bulbs.

Liz also longs to get her hands on a high-powered hairdryer, so she is backing the ‘Leave’ vote in a bid to bring them back.

She wrote: “I was brought up to think God is an English man and Jesus Christ looked like Robert Powell.

“I’ve never felt remotely European and see them as exotic and fabulously foreign.

“I yearn for the days when my (gorgeous navy blue) passport got stamped when I went anywhere in Europe, and I loved puzzling over fistfuls of Italian lire, French francs and Deutschemarks. It was glamorous and exciting.”

The brunette beauty goes on to express her thoughts on the Brexit debate, revealing she has chosen to keep her opinion private until now.

She added: “I have been asked by some important people who care passionately about Great Britain to weigh in on the EU debate.

“I can’t imagine for a second that any voters would be remotely interested in what I have to say so I’ve refused but I can tell you this…

“If it means we can go back to using decent lightbulbs (60-watt, peach-coloured, both bayonet and screw-in) and choose high-powered hairdryers and vacuum cleaners if we so wish, I’m joining Brexit for sure.”

Liz’s pro-light bulb campaigning comes as she shared a sexy selfie on Instagram last night.

She uploaded a snap which shows her flashing her cleavage as she pouts at the camera.

Liz wrote in a caption: “Another evening, another LBD”.

Britain goes to the polls on 23 June to decide whether to remain a part of the EU.

Other stars to have previously backed the Brexit campaign include Downton Abbey creator Julian Fellowes and Sir Michael Caine, who urged fellow Brits to vote ‘Leave’.

The veteran actor said: “To me, you’ve now got in Europe a sort of
government by-proxy of everybody, who has now got carried away.

“Unless there is some extremely significant changes, we should get out.
You cannot be dictated to by thousands of faceless civil servants.”