Exiting EU may be the only way Britain can dump gypsy gangsters building lavish mansions with YOUR cash

QUITTING the EU may be the only way Britain can get rid of Romanian gypsy gangsters swindling millions of pounds in benefits to build flashy houses back in their homeland.

Romanian cops have already drafted plans to cope with the onslaught of work-shy crooks expected to head back to their native country if Brits vote for a Brexit.

In the Romanian town of Tandarei, more than 300 Beverly Hills-style mansions have been built — many funded by British benefit handouts.

Five years ago, when Scotland Yard swooped on the town in a bid to stop more of our cash flooding in, there were fewer than 100 mansions. But locals in
 andarei called Met Police promises to clamp down on the criminals a “joke”.

At one mansion the owner said: “Britain is easy money for us.

“They give it away. We have done nothing wrong. Why shouldn’t we live well? We earned the benefits.”

The garish pastel-coloured palaces have tasteless mirrored windows, tacky turrets and gold-painted balconies.

Many are surrounded by 20ft iron fences to keep out impoverished neighbours from the crumbling slums nearby. Some have UK-registered luxury cars parked outside.

Some are valued at more than ￡500,000 but they cost a fraction to build using black market materials and cheap local labour.

Factory worker Nicu Paraschiv, 60, who is on the minimum wage, said he is praying that Brexit never happens and the Roma crooks stay in the UK.

He insisted: “If the gypsies come back full-time, it will be a nightmare, because they will bring back all the crime and disorder.

“There will be muggings, burglaries — who knows what else?”

Nicu lives in a three-bed bungalow with mother Aglaia, 90, wife Elena, 58, daughter Sinica, 30, and granddaughter Daria, seven.

They grow their own fruit and vegetables and keep chickens, bees and a goat to provide food.

On the other side of the road, a 12-bedroom mansion lies vacant while its owners live it up in Britain.

It is bigger than Daria’s primary school and was one of the properties targeted by the Met.

Nicu said: “The British police put on a big show of force in 2011. We’d never seen anything like it.

“They flew over the gypsies’ mansions in helicopters and dropped into their gardens on zip-lines.

“They made all sorts of threats and promises, said they would capture the bad guys and seize their houses and property.

“But in the end nothing happened. It’s a joke.

“The gypsies just carried on as normal. They didn’t care one bit.

“Since then they have continued to build more and more mansions, even though most have never done a day’s work in their lives.

“It’s Britain’s fault for handing out so much money and giving them everything they wanted. The system must be broken.”

Dumitru Bors, 55, works 12 hours a day as a shepherd to make ends meet. He said it galls him to see the mansions as he herds his flock. He added: “We don’t want the gypsies back here. They give nothing.

“I work hard to provide for my family, but they come from a self-entitled culture where they won’t work at all.

“These mansions have been built with money stolen from other countries, mainly Britain.

“If they are sent back here, they will probably bring stuff to sell, like designer clothing. Once that’s gone they will find some other criminal way to make money.”

Another local added: “Most of the homes are vacant because the owners are away in the UK.

“They continue to build and develop for their own vanity.

“It is a joke. They earn so much more than we do living as law-abiding citizens in our home country.

“We don’t want them back. We like our village to be safe and peaceful.”

Tandarei has a population of around 12,000.

Local police say around 5,000 gypsies from the town are currently living in Britain and sending ill-gotten handouts home.

Yesterday a police chief in Tandarei, who refused to be named for fear of reprisals, said he expected many of them to return.

He added: “Many of these are people who left years ago and now have large families they will bring home with them.

“They are not the type of people we want to have back. They are criminals and troublemakers and won’t have jobs to come back to.

“When they visit the village erupts with drunkenness and violence. That’s how we know we need to be ready if they are sent back.”

Tandarei gangsters are also alleged to have been heavily involved with child trafficking.

In October 2011, the BBC’s Panorama reported that a British and Romanian police operation had arrested 26 traffickers from the town. The accused were imprisoned for months but denied any wrongdoing and were freed.

Romanians and Bulgarians make up a fifth of Europeans arriving in Britain.

‘Con Air’ welfare grab for ￡800,000 By NICK PISA

ONE notorious Tandarei family was dubbed “Con Air” after they used budget airlines to jet to Britain to claim more than ￡800,000 in benefits.

Telus Dumitru, 42, and gang members, most of them relatives, cheated UK taxpayers in what a judge called a “flagrant” attack on the welfare system.

They used forged Home Office documents to obtain National Insurance numbers, which they used to get the handouts.

Ringleader Dumitru was jailed in 2012 for four years and eight months.

And in 2011, eight members of another Tandarei family, who also swindled ￡800,000, were jailed.

Adrian Radu and sister-in-law Claudia led a 30-strong gang who forged residency documents and job references to claim the cash.

They also collected income support, child benefit and housing handouts — wiring the money to their homeland.

In another case, Romanian Lavinia Olmazu, 36, was jailed after she helped 172 gypsies to claim almost ￡3million in handouts fraudulently.

Romanian gangs are also said to be behind most of the cashpoint scams in Britain, netting them around ￡40million a year.

Other scams involved Roma gangmasters buying up bulk copies of homeless mag The Big Issue.

They then gave them to gypsy women to sell and pocketed the cash.

And some Roma beggars are believed to have made ￡500 a day on UK streets before handing the haul over to crooked minders.