Tony Parsons: We’ll quit Europe because Leavers simply care more, and the vote won’t even be close

THE polls put the Leave and Remain sides neck and neck, but I strongly suspect the UK will choose to quit the European Union because one side cares far more than the other side.

The Leave side has passion, conviction and belief. The Leave side is aching to get our country back.

The Leave side can’t wait to jump out of bed on June 23 and dash to the polling booth.

Nothing in the world could prevent me from voting to bail out of this decaying superstate.

And there are millions like me. But what about the other side? From Downing Street to the Labour Party’s HQ, the liberal elite warns us that doom and destruction await us if we choose to restore our national sovereignty.

As if Europe would suddenly stop trading with the fifth largest economy in the world.

Why would they? What would be in it for them?

The arguments to keep us under the boot heel of Brussels lack all credibility. The ￡9million of your money that the Government blew on their feeble pro-EU leaflet looks like a whimper of desperation.

Jeremy Corbyn — a lifelong Eurosceptic until Thursday — instructs us that we should vote to remain and embrace the EU, “warts and all.”

Warts? The borders are kaput. The euro is kaput, condemning a generation of young Europeans to exile or the dole. And the German Chancellor’s unilateral decision to invite the Third World to claim a new life and a free pair of lederhosen in the West has laid the foundation for decades of virulent extremism.

The European Union doesn’t have warts. It has terminal cancer.

But Corbyn is not the only hypocrite to change his tune about the EU. All the senior Tory cheerleaders of the Remain campaign have been scathing about the EU when they wanted a nice round of applause at the Conservative Party conference.

The change of heart from William Hague, Theresa May and the Prime Minister himself is baffling, not to mention nauseating.

Eleven million suckers voted for Cameron at the General Election — including me! — because we BELIEVED him when he said he was going to fight for a new deal for the UK in Europe and that he “ruled nothing out” if he didn’t get what he wanted.

Cameron swanned into Downing Street on the back of a lie.

His renegotiation with the EU had as much substance as the weapons of mass destruction that Tony Blair swore were hidden in Saddam Hussein’s shed.

In 1975, the last time we had any say, the British people were told we were joining a Common Market.

But like a metastasising tumour, the EU has grown into a bloated superstate that makes nobody prosperous, nobody safe and nobody free. And unlike the tepid souls on the other side, those of us who want our country back care deeply about this issue.

That is why we will march to the polling booths in our millions on June 23. That is why we will win.

And I promise you now — it will not even be close.

De Niro defient on MMR

ROBERT DE NIRO told NBC’s Today Show that his wife Grace continues to blame their son’s autism on the vaccine for measles, mumps and rubella.

The claim that there is a link between the MMR jab and autism has been discredited, but some parents of autistic children – like the Hollywood actor’s wife – will insist until their dying day that they saw their child change almost overnight after the vaccination.

Many parents agonised about the MMR jab. Our daughter had the jab only after a doctor told me exactly what De Niro believes today.

“The vaccines are dangerous to certain people who are more susceptible,” says De Niro.

It was only allowing for this element of doubt – and the belief that not having the MMR would be even more dangerous to our daughter – that persuaded us to go ahead.

De Niro organises New York’s Tribeca Film Festival where he has just dropped a film by disgraced British scientist, Andrew Wakefield, the man responsible for the panic around the MMR jab.

But the actor maintains parents should never be afraid to question the medical profession. And he’s right.

They are doctors, not gods.

Time aid stayed in Britain CUTS to benefits for the disabled. Tightened belts for the Armed Forces, police and junior doctors. Yet the British blow more than ￡12billion a year on foreign aid – an absurd ￡1 of every ￡7 given by the developed world!

Why exactly?

So David Cameron can show us how much he cares. So George Osborne can preen with Bob Geldof at the GQ Men of the Year awards. So researchers in Colombia can study flatulence in cattle and its impact on climate change. ￡15million for farting cows!

What an obscene and spectacular waste of taxpayers’ money when so many of our own people are suffering. Our foreign aid budget has nothing to do with helping the poor.

And it clearly does nothing to stop millions in the Third World from wanting to come and live here.

— FOR years it was that loyal, loving dog the Staffordshire bull terrier that was routinely abandoned by idiots who owned them to look tough. These days it is the tiny handbag breeds filling rescue centres – pugs, Pomeranians, miniature pinschers.

They should be put down. Not the dogs – the idiots who dump them after discovering that owning a pug doesn’t turn them into Paris Hilton.

— SPEAKING in front of an American Senate subcommittee, U2’s Bono told Washington that the way to beat Islamic State is with comedy.

“Don’t laugh,” Bono said.

Don’t worry, Bono – we’re not.

“I think comedy should be deployed,” Bono said. “You speak violence, you speak their language. But you laugh at them when they’re goose-stepping down the street, and it takes away their power.”

Bono suggested that Sacha Baron Cohen could be sent to defeat Islamic State.

Thanks for your input, Bono. But I think we will stick with the drone strikes.

— NARENDRA MODI, India’s Prime Minister, was so keen to make the most of his photo opportunity with Prince William that he held on with a psychotic enthusiasm. After their handshake, William’s mitt looked as if it had third-degree burns.

William gets stick for taking on fewer royal engagements than his 94-year-old grandfather.

But when you see William obliged to keep smiling with the likes of Modi, you can’t blame him for wanting to stay at home with Kate and the kids.

Who’s the hardman, Colonel?

EVERY father of a daughter is a feminist, so I applaud political journalist Isabel Hardman for highlighting what happened to her at the hands of a sexist old booby. Tory MP Colonel Bob Stewart approached Hardman in Westminster with the offensive line: “I want to talk to the totty.”

Oh Bob – how can you possibly imagine that this could do anything but make a woman’s flesh crawl?

Bonking Bob, hero of Bosnia and MP for Beckenham, clearly needs to treat women in the workplace with more respect.

But I do hope this doesn’t spoil the working relationship between these two Westminster stalwarts.

And Isabel feels free to approach Bob and say: “I want to talk to the drooling old duffer who a woman like me wouldn’t touch with a sticky bargepole.”

— IN his documentary, What British Muslims Really Think, former equalities chief Trevor Phillips argued that a large part of the Muslim community live in this country without remotely subscribing to our views on tolerance, freedom and equality between the sexes.

Many British Muslims, Philips said, “do not accept the values and behaviour that make Britain what it is.”

Phillips confirmed what many of us already suspected.

Our British tolerance has encouraged ghettoes where intolerance thrives.

And the idea that only a “tiny minority” of Muslims hold woman-hating, anti-Semitic, homophobic, medieval views looks ever more like wishful thinking.

— THE last ever FA Cup tie at Upton Park was graced by a cracking game and one of the most bizarre moments ever seen at that great old ground. As Manchester United’s Ander Herrera dawdled leaving the pitch, West Ham’s Mark Noble lost patience, lifting the Spanish midfielder into the air and carrying him from the field.

And the spooky thing was that Herrera didn’t seem to mind at all.