A vote for Brexit is all it takes to set Britain free

GOOD on Wag Tanya Bardsley for not pretending to be pregnant and “perfect”.
I thought the star of The Real Housewives of Cheshire and mum of three looked great in the photo she tweeted of her “fat thighs and stretch marks”, when most people in her position are trying to show how flawless they are.

JUST four days from now we can set Britain free.

Free from the stranglehold of the EU superstate which, from its modest beginnings 60 years ago, has grown into a monster engulfing our democracy.

For 20 years they would not let us join. Now, with us in, they have progressively tied us up in millions of new regulations.

They range from how we weigh our veg to the crucial and fundamental right to determine how many people enter Britain and who they are.

Brussels has bogged down our small businesses with red tape and milks Britain for billions each year as a membership fee, preventing our natural spirit of enterprise.

Its courts over-rule ours, and our elected Government.

Unless we vote Leave this Thursday, all of this will get much worse.

The risk of voting Remain is much the greater.

In spite of this, Britain has done better than some others, for which we can thank the great Eurosceptic Margaret Thatcher.

The Common Market was never a free market but a tariff union to keep food prices high. Now Europe sends billions to Africa, much of which comes out of British taxpayers’ pockets.

And we have our leaders panicking to keep us locked in, using personal abuse and dangerous rhetoric.

This negative campaign has been based on little except promoting phoney fear of giving up our EU membership. On the two other big issues — immigration and sovereignty — they simply have no case.

The decision to leave is the most important of a lifetime, but perhaps the easiest. Scrapping the free movement of people — that sacred foundation stone of the EU — will finally give Britain some control over the numbers of migrants flooding in from Europe.

Our population is expanding rapidly, a rate of 333,000 a year, and we are powerless to stop it despite all the pressure it is piling on to our hospitals, schools, transport systems and housing stock.

Of course leaving the EU won’t solve it at a stroke. But full border controls will allow us to regulate the flow as well as to pick and choose the migrants with the skills we need.

Staying in ends any chance of control ... forever. And poorer countries soon to join the EU will virtually ensure our immigration numbers rise even higher.

Leaving will also allow us to free up our net contribution to the EU — a staggering ￡250million a week — -to spend wherever it is most needed.

That could be the NHS.

It could be to relieve the pressure on the working-class communities that have been hit by the surge in their migrant population.

Outside the EU we can re-establish the sovereignty of our elected parliament and our courts.

After years as just one member of a giant trading federation, we can use our muscle as the world’s fifth biggest economy to strike our own lucrative deals with the host of independent nations around the world growing much faster than those in Europe.

Those would include America, Canada, Australia and New Zealand — four other major democracies whose independence we can currently only admire.

On Friday morning, if Britain has had the good sense to vote Leave, we can do more than admire.

We can follow their lead and reclaim our country.