Revealed: Queen backs Brexit as alleged EU bust-up with ex-Deputy PM emerges

EXCLUSIVE: Her Majesty reportedly let rip at Nick Clegg during lunch at Windsor Castle

IPSO rules agains Sun's Queen headline Buckingham Palace complained to the Independent Press Standards Organisation (IPSO) that The Sun breached Clause 1 (Accuracy) of the Editors’ Code of Practice, in an article headlined “Queen Backs Brexit” published on 9 March 2016.

IPSO upheld the complaint, and has ordered The Sun to publish its decision as a remedy.

The article was published on the newspaper’s front page. The headline appeared beneath the strapline “Exclusive: bombshell claim over Europe vote” and above the sub-headline “EU going in wrong direction, she says”. Accompanying the headline was an official photograph of the Queen in ceremonial dress.

The article reported that two unnamed sources had claimed that the Queen made critical comments about the EU at two private functions: a lunch for Privy Counsellors at Windsor Castle in 2011, and a reception for Members of Parliament at Buckingham Palace said to have taken place “a few years ago”.

The complainant said that the headline meant that the Queen was a supporter of the Leave campaign in the forthcoming referendum, and wanted to see Britain leave the EU. The complainant said this was misleading, distorted, and unsupported by the text.

The newspaper said that readers would have known that the headline referred to no more than a claim that the Queen backs Brexit. The text of the article set out the basis for that claim: the accounts of apparently Eurosceptic views said to have been expressed by the Queen on two previous occasions. This was a legitimate public interest story, and its readers were entitled to know the Queen’s views.

In IPSO’s view, while the complaint about the article itself did not raise a breach of the Code, the headline went much further than a claim about what the Queen might think. It was a factual assertion that the Queen had expressed a position in the referendum debate, and there was nothing in the headline, or the manner in which it was presented on the newspaper’s front page, to suggest that this was conjecture, hyperbole, or was not to be read literally.

IPSO acknowledged the importance of headlines in tabloid newspapers. However, it did not follow from the comments the article reported that the Queen wanted the UK to leave the EU as a result of the referendum: that suggestion was conjecture and the Committee noted that none of those quoted in the story were reported as making such a claim.

The headline was not supported by the text. It was significantly misleading – given that it suggested a fundamental breach of the Queen’s constitutional obligations – and represented a failure to take care not to publish inaccurate, misleading or distorted information in breach of Clause 1 (i). The complaint under Clause 1 was upheld.

THE Queen has been hailed as a backer of Brexit tonight after details emerged of an extraordinary alleged bust-up between her and Nick Clegg over Europe.

Her Majesty let rip at the then Deputy PM during a lunch at Windsor Castle, The Sun has been told.

The 89-year-old monarch firmly told passionate pro-European Mr Clegg that she believed the EU was heading in the wrong direction.

Her stinging reprimand went on for “quite a while”, leaving other guests around the table stunned.

The account of the bombshell lunch during the last government - which a handful of other government ministers also attended - has been relayed to The Sun by a highly reliable source.

The senior source said: “People who heard their conversation were left in no doubt at all about the Queen’s views on European integration.

“It was really something, and it went on for quite a while.

“The EU is clearly something Her Majesty feels passionately about.”

The monarch is also said to have revealed her Eurosceptic feelings during a separate conversation with MPs at a Buckingham Palace reception.

One of a group of Parliamentarians in a circle with her at the time asked Her Majesty for her thoughts on Brussels.

The Queen is said to have snapped back angrily: “I don’t understand Europe”.

A parliamentary source, who relayed the remark to The Sun, said: “It was said with quite some venom and emotion. I shall never forget it”.

The claims will explode a furious controversy.

Brexit-backing Tory MPs are already leaping on The Sun’s revelations as a strong sign the Queen is secretly on the side of Leave ahead of the landmark EU referendum on June 23.

But British monarchs are deemed to be above politics and have always tried hard to stay out of divisive issues.

The upcoming EU referendum is one of the most divisive in decades, splitting the country down the middle on whether to remain or leave.

Buckingham Palace and Mr Clegg tried to pour cold water on the bust-up claim, but neither expressly denied a heated debate between the Queen and the former Lib Dem leader had taken place.

A Buckingham Palace spokesman said: “The Queen remains politically neutral, as she has for 63 years. We would never comment on spurious, anonymously sourced claims.

“The referendum will be a matter for the British people.”

Former Lib Dem boss Mr Clegg told The Sun: “I have absolutely no recollection of it.

“I don’t have a photographic memory. But I think I would have remembered something as stark or significant as you have made it out to be.

“No doubt you’ll speak to someone else and they’ll say, ‘I was there I heard it’. Fine.

“But I really can’t remember it at all.

“Anyway, without sounding pompous, I find it rather distasteful to reveal conversations with the Queen.”

Despite the longstanding tradition for Royals to stay out of politics, The Queen was seen to have controversially intervened in the referendum on Scottish independence in September 2014.

In remarks widely judged to have been a call to keep Great Britain together, Her Majesty told well-wishers after a Sunday church service that voters should “think very carefully” before making their decision.

It is believed the remark had been carefully cooked up by the Queen’s top official Sir Christopher Geidt and Cabinet Secretary Sir Jeremy Heywood — who is the PM’s most senior mandarin — after the government appealed for her help when polls showed a surge in support for the 'Yes' campaign.

The only other time the Queen was embroiled in a major political controversy was in 1986, when The Sunday Times reported that then PM Margaret Thatcher’s social policies and attitude to the Commonwealth caused Her Majesty dismay.

Buckingham Palace issued a string of denials but the Sunday Times stood by its story.

It emerged the source was the Queen’s Press Secretary Michael Shea, who was eventually forced to leave his job.

Fears are also growing the Queen will come under heavy pressure from No10 to make a pro-EU intervention during her official 90th birthday celebrations in mid-June, just days before the nationwide vote.

Every word of the monarch’s public utterances at the time will be pored over by observers for any sign of her personal feelings.

Within Royal circles, the Duke of Edinburgh’s anti-EU views are also widely known.

