10 reasons why choosing Brexit on June 23 is a vote for a stronger, better Britain

Leaving the EU will save our sovereignty, rein in migration and boost our economy

BREXIT campaigners have listed 10 reasons why a vote for their side is for a stronger, better Britain.

Below, we present the views of three experts who argue why leaving the EU on June 23 will save our sovereignty, rein in migration and boost our economy:

10 Reasons to leave the EU
More integration: Voting to stay in means agreeing to the closer union that the Eurocrats want – from common taxes to common welfare rules.
The EU will carry on becoming like a single country, with its own foreign policy, passport and anthem.

More bailouts: The moment the EU needed money for a third Greek bailout, the agreement that we shouldn’t have to bail out the euro was ripped up – and Britain was billed ￡850million.
How many more times, especially as it’s likely the euro crisis will hit Italy or France?

An EU army: “No one is talking about an EU army,” say the Remain camp.
Er, no one except the people running the EU. President Jean-Claude Juncker has made very clear that he wants an EU army. And the European Commission describes it as a “strategic necessity”.

Rule by Euro judges: The European Court of Justice has got hold of massive new powers.
It recently said we couldn’t deport Abu Hamza’s criminal daughter-in-law as that would violate her son’s rights as an EU citizen.
Stand by for more rulings like this.

Shrinking GDP: When we joined the EEC in 1973, the 28 current members made up 36 per cent of the world economy.
Today it’s 17 per cent and falling almost by the minute – making our inability to trade freely across the oceans an increasingly serious problem.

End of reforms: Every vote to stay in will be taken in Brussels as keen support for the project.
Britain will have demanded minor changes, failed to get even those, then voted to stay in anyway.
Could we blame the Eurocrats for seeing it as a capitulation?

Boosting the federalists: A vote to Remain will be a vote to have one country called Europe.
It will be a vote for those Brits who support the Eurocrats – Neil Kinnock, Peter Mandelson and the like.
It will also be a vote for the mega-banks that fund the Remain side.

Uncontrolled immigration: Forget about controlling who comes here or in what numbers.
We’ll have missed our one chance to make decisions on the level of immigration from the EU and on what skills workers must have before they come here.

Unconditional Surrender: For decades, Britain has protested the idea of an EU superstate.
But we’d now be voting to Remain on unchanged terms.
Once they had finished whooping, the Eurocrats would get on with merging us into a European bloc.

Fear over hope: The Remainers believe we’ll go along with the EU gloomily because we fear change.Are we too scared to run our own affairs? Will we give in to bullying from Brussels bureaucrats? Is that really the nation we have become?

The three key battlegrounds - sovereignty, migration and the economy - have dominated the TV debates, with polls consistently showing they are the topics uppermost in voters’ hearts and minds.

Politicians from both sides have repeatedly tried to claim victory on all three fronts.

But here our experts argue in each case, a vote for Brexit would be the best course of action for the UK:

IMMIGRATION is a serious concern for ordinary voters.

Net migration is running at a third of a million, nearly half of it from the EU.

This poses massive challenges to ordinary, hard-working families who rely on local services but are already finding competition for them is fierce.

Schools are so over-subscribed that many parents lose out on their first choices of education for their kids.

Migrants register with a GP at a rate of one per minute, so waiting times for appointments are getting longer.

We are a small island nation. Yet at the present rate of immigration we have to build one home every four minutes to house migrants and their families.

speedboats
Our ongoing housing crisis will only get worse.

Young people are stuck at home with their parents, unable to save money for a deposit due to massive rents and unable to buy because prices are beyond their reach.

We estimate that net migration is going to continue at the rate of 250,000 a year for the next 20 years if the UK votes to Remain.

Sixty per cent of this will be from the EU.

If we are right – and we have a good record predicting future immigration – our population will reach 70million in 2024 and 80million 20 years later.

Even that massive increase assumes that Turkey will not join the EU, despite the British Government’s support for it.

If it does eventually join, we are looking at another wave of immigration of some 100,000 a year.

Why will net migration continue? The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development estimates that wages in Eastern Europe will not converge with the UK over the next 20 years, so there will continue to be a massive economic incentive to come to the UK, even for low-paid jobs.

That incentive will be boosted in 2020 when the National Living Wage will be ￡9 an hour.

This will mean even more competition for British workers.

Of course, immigration from outside the EU is also high, at around 190,000.

But the crucial point is that the Government can control who can come from these countries.

There is more to be done but the Government has the powers.

By contrast, if we vote to Remain there will be no hope of reducing immigration from the EU.

The right to live and work here will be set in stone, with nothing our politicians can do.

Naturally, we will still want skilled doctors and engineers to come from Europe, but that could continue under the system of work permits that we recommend.

This would reduce EU migration by around 100,000 a year and maximise the economic benefit to Britain, while minimising the population pressures.

As the debate has developed, it has become increasingly clear that the In campaigners have nothing to suggest about how to deal with the mass immigration that has gone on for far too long.

Now we are in the final few days before the referendum, there are many issues to consider before voting.

But if immigration remains one of your major concerns, there is at least a clear dividing line between the campaigns.

Lord Green is chairman of the think tank Migration Watch UK.

BRITAIN’S greatest export, our chief contribution to human happiness, is parliamentary democracy.

Our ancestors hit on the idea that instead of making up the rules as they went along, the people in charge should follow rules set by the nation at large.

British history is the story of how we gradually took power away from the elites.

As power spreads, the people in charge find it harder to rig the rules. The country as a whole becomes freer, fairer and richer.

Countries around the world have flourished by copying the British model. But we are losing it at home.

Power is shifting to Brussels, from people we can sack to people we can’t.

That wouldn’t matter so much if the EU was simply a free trade area.

But it aims to become a country called Europe.

Back in 1975, we voted to join a common market — those words actually appeared on the ballot paper.

Since then, Eurocrats have dropped any pretence of the main interest being in trade.

The European Economic Community became the European Union.

It got its hands on most of the things that go with being a nation: A parliament and supreme court, a currency and tax system, a president and foreign minister, a national anthem and flag.

Britain has lost its sovereignty to the EU.

Sovereignty is something we haven’t heard much about during this campaign.

The referendum has mainly been fought on immigration and the economy.

But both are really about sovereignty. In other words, both are really about who gets to decide.

Why couldn’t David Cameron keep his promise to hold net immigration below 100,000 a year? Because it’s up to Brussels, not Britain.

If Parliament passed a law limiting the number of EU settlers to 100,000, that law would be struck down by our own judges, who have to give EU law primacy.

The 100,001st applicant would claim his residence rights — and welfare and voting rights — from British courts. That’s what losing sovereignty means.

It’s a similar story when it comes to the economy. What’s at stake isn’t just which policies we follow, it’s who gets to set them.

Plenty of groups have suffered from EU rules, including steelworkers. In each case, Britain is forced to apply laws which damage us.

Who does best out of the system? Those lobbies and vested interests that can get their way in Brussels without having to worry about the voters. Look at who is funding Remain: Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan, Citibank and Morgan Stanley.

The multinationals and megabanks have spent millions pushing through EU rules that suit them.

No wonder they’re terrified of leaving. So are the failed British politicians who turned to Brussels after losing here.

Democracies such as Japan wouldn’t dream of subjecting themselves to foreign rule.

Are we uniquely unable to run our own affairs? What kind of people do Remainers think we are?

Daniel Hannan is a Conservative MEP and author of Why Vote Leave, published by Head of Zeus.

IF you listen to the Government’s Project Fear campaign, you’d be convinced that Brexit would result in economic Armageddon for the UK.

But not only is this view blatant scaremongering, it is economically illiterate.

I co-chair Economists for Brexit, a group of eight independent leading economists who are convinced of the strong economic case for leaving the EU.

Our models calculate we would gain four per cent more GDP from free trade, and even more on top because of less regulation.

The EU loves regulation. The Working Time Directive tells us how long to work. In finance, the EU tells firms how much they can pay.

Its energy policy makes us build lines of eyesore windmills which cost a bomb.

This regulation is there to suit the big businesses that lobby Brussels all the time — favours for favours, cutting out the dynamic small and innovative businesses.

It is a cosy world. No wonder the establishment is so keen to keep it.

Meanwhile, the EU’s economic policies have wreaked havoc all over the Continent. Greece has seen its economy ruined, while youth unemployment in Southern Europe has been driven into the stratosphere.

Protectionist policies such as the Common Agricultural Policy raise the prices we pay in our shops by about eight per cent — or about ￡40 per household adult.

In contrast, our forecasts show that Brexit would make us more competitive, drive up living standards, reduce unemployment and increase our output.

Against this the Treasury has mustered an international army of Establishment bureaucrats and modellers to persuade you it will be a disaster.

This has been a shameless abuse of economic modelling and a blatant attempt to con the people.

How did they do it? By using some pretty strange models and some ridiculous assumptions.

It is obvious that Brexit — with its lower prices, free trade and more competition — must be good for an economy.

The Remain camp have also turned their attention to trade deals.

They claim we will never get a better deal with the EU and it will take us umpteen years to renegotiate all the wonderful deals we now have with countries through the EU.

But trade deals with all these other economies are irrelevant to us because their effects are too small to impact the world prices we trade at.

We need no trade deals to trade! We have never had a deal with the US, yet have successfully traded with them for nearly two centuries.

Do not be fooled by Angela Merkel’s threats — the EU will continue to do business with us, countries such as Germany export far more to us than we do to them.

We will have an amicable deal on trade because they, not we, need it.

Brexit will bring new vigour and competition to our economy and, above all, will give us consumers much lower prices.

Patrick Minford is Professor of Economics at Cardiff Business School and co-chair of Economists for Brexit.