Here are the six new laws the Leave campaign wants to pass after Brexit

Vote Leave has unveiled a 'Brexit Queen's Speech' to let Brits know what they would be voting for

ANTI-EU Cabinet ministers have unveiled a ‘Brexit Queen’s Speech’ of new laws to be passed if Britain leaves the EU.

In their biggest challenge to David Cameron’s authority yet, the Leave campaign bosses are pledging to immediately introduce six new bills if they win the referendum next week.

Here are the six laws Brexiteers want to pass through Parliament by 2020 if Brits vote for Brexit next Thursday:

European Union Law (Emergency Provisions) Bill

This would immediately end the European Court of Justice’s control over national security and allow the Government to remove EU citizens “whose presence is not conducive to the public good”.

The Leave campaign says it would also end payouts under EU law to big businesses, saving between ￡7 billion and ￡43 billion for public services by 2021.

A special Finance Bill

The Leave campaign says this would abolish the 5% rate of VAT on household energy bills by the date of the next general election.

It says it would pay for this change by savings from Britain’s contributions to the EU budget.

National Health Service (Funding Target) Bill

This law would give the NHS an extra ￡100million a week by the next election, over and above current plans.

Again Vote Leave said it will be paid for by savings from the UK’s contributions to the EU budget and other savings from leaving.

Asylum and Immigration Control Bill

This would create a points based immigration system and end the automatic right of all EU citizens to enter Britain by the next election.

It would also end the European Court’s control of Britain’s asylum policy.

Free Trade Bill

Vote Leave says this law would see Britain leaving the EU’s ‘common commercial policy’ and start negotiating its own trade deals with emerging economies and the world’s biggest, including the US, China and Japan.

European Communities Act 1972 (Repeal) Bill

This law would cut Britain’s ties with the treaties that make up the heart of the EU.

The Leave campaign said this law would end the European Court's jurisdiction over the UK and see the UK stop making contributions to the EU's budget.

Vote Leave says the move is a bid to lay out a clear road map of what Brits would be voting for.

One of the anti-EU Cabinet ministers, House of Commons Leader Chris Grayling, said: “After we Vote Leave the public need to see that there is immediate action to take back control from the EU.

“We will need a carefully managed negotiation process and some major legislative changes before 2020.”