The flaw in the heart of the campaign for Brexit
Advocates of departure from the EU cannot agree what ‘Out’ means


Britain’s Eurosceptics could be forgiven for having a spring in their step this weekend. As the referendum on whether the UK should quit the EU moves closer, they may be tempted to think that the public mood is shifting their way.

David Cameron’s draft renegotiation on the terms of British membership has this week been savaged by much of the British press. An opinion poll on Friday suggested that the “leave” campaign has a nine-point lead over its opponents. With the EU confronting multiple challenges — above all a deepening migrant crisis — the battle over Brexit looks increasingly set to be a close run thing.

Even so, those campaigning for Britain’s withdrawal should not feel complacent. Given how much they have clamoured for this referendum, they might have been expected to be showing iron discipline now that battle looks about to be joined. Yet far from displaying unity, the pro-Brexit lobby is plagued by infighting, clashing egos and a failure to agree on key aspects of its campaign.

The disarray is unsurprising. A difficulty for the Eurosceptics is that they have long been unable to find a big hitter who can lead their cause. A champion from the Conservative ranks may yet appear. But Theresa May, home secretary and one of the most talked about candidates, has this week ruled herself out. Boris Johnson, the mayor of London, looks increasingly like an uncertain prospect.

A much deeper difficulty is that those leading the Brexit charge cannot agree on the core message to voters. Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence party, has long favoured a focus on immigration and on stopping EU citizens coming to the UK. Douglas Carswell, the sole MP from Ukip, wants to promote post-Brexit Britain as a Singapore-style state open to capital and migration. This difference has led to the emergence of two rival groups — Leave.EU supported by Mr Farage and Vote Leave backed by Mr Carswell — whose aims look irreconcilable.

It is not just a matter of discordant personalities. Out campaigners have struggled to unite around a single vision of what Britain’s post-Brexit trading arrangements would look like. They have also failed to provide a convincing explanation of how leaving the EU would give the British greater control over their destiny and improved economic prospects. This is not surprising because none of the models that is mooted for a future outside the EU is convincing.

Some Eurosceptics say that the UK should sign up to a Norwegian option, whereby it quits the EU but remains a member of the single market. Far from enhancing UK sovereignty, this would see Britain forced to adopt many single market rules without any say over their substance. Others argue that Britain should strike trade deals on a country-by-country basis. But this would see British companies paying higher tariffs to trade internationally.

When it comes to these models — and others — the problem is that Britain moves from being a rule-maker to a rule-taker.

As the referendum approaches, the burning question, and one raised in the British media this week, is whether someone will emerge who will lead the “Outs” and “speak for England”.

But if someone credible is to take on the challenge, pro-Brexit campaigners will first have to settle on a definition of what the alternative to EU membership looks like. The rivals in the Out camp will have to provide a clear and convincing answer. Otherwise no serious and ambitious Conservative would be foolhardy enough to lead them.
