A reasonable deal to keep Britain in Europe
Cameron’s EU renegotiation has achieved tangible benefits for the UK


David Cameron’s long journey to renegotiate Britain’s relationship with the EU is finally — some might say thankfully — drawing to a close. When the prime minister pledged three years ago to hold a referendum on UK membership, he argued that the union was flawed and that his government would need to reconfigure its place before he could campaign to stay in.

The draft he has agreed with Brusselswill be denounced as feeble, above all by Europhobes for whom any agreement would never be good enough. For all the criticism, however, Mr Cameron looks set to secure a reasonable deal for Britain.

When he began this renegotiation, some Conservatives believed that the prime minister could somehow pull off a fundamental change in the terms of UK membership, but as Harold Wilson discovered before the last Europe referendum in 1975, there is a limit to what a British prime minister can achieve. The EU is, by its nature, a bloc where sovereignty is shared and the UK already has opt-outs from the euro, the Schengen passport-free zone and many agreements on justice and home affairs. This left Mr Cameron little scope to extract yet more big carve-outs from EU partners.

Even so, in each of the areas where he has sought reform, the prime minister has made tangible progress. The agreement to exempt Britain from “ever closer union” — one of the EU’s founding principles — may seem like symbolism but it provides reassurance that the UK is not on a train it didn’t want to join.

Allowing the parliaments of member states to reject EU legislation could be a significant boost for national sovereignty if a sufficient number of legislatures decide to play the “red card”.

It is particularly important that Mr Cameron has won safeguards against the eurozone imposing unwelcome financial regulations on the wider EU. While Britain has not secured a guarantee against such discrimination, the pact establishes rules for how disagreements will be treated.

Given the political sensitivity at home, the proposed deal on EU migration will come under particular scrutiny. Mr Cameron made a mistake by promising sweeping curbs on free movement, to which his EU partners were never going to agree, and has been forced to compromise. Under the draft pact, any EU member state could gradually stop granting in-work benefits to EU migrants for four years if its welfare system was deemed to be under extraordinary pressure.

The terms of the migration deal are set to be heavily contested. Brexit campaigners say the concession is flawed because benefits will be phased in for migrants over the four-year period, not halted as Mr Cameron had initially hoped. Some EU nations, notably Poland, also say they will find it difficult to sign the proposed draft later this month, arguing that it unfairly discriminates against their own citizens.


At this critical moment, the Polish government must recognise the risk of trying to push Mr Cameron into further concessions. If the prime minister is to lead the “In” campaign with authority, he needs to show voters that Britain has gained some control over EU migration into the UK.

Britain is on the eve of a referendum that will define its future in Europe and the wider world. The debate in the campaign will go far beyond the issues raised by a backroom deal in Brussels, touching on fundamental questions about Britain’s political, economic and security interests. Even so, Mr Cameron has done better than expected in this renegotiation. Let the campaign begin.

