Appeal to youth vote key for UK to remain in EU
Younger voters are more likely to want to stay inside the bloc

The opinion polls ahead of Britain’s referendum on membership of the EU on June 23 offer an uncertain guide. The referendum campaign still seems too close to call — with the latest FT poll-of-polls showing those wanting to remain in the EU, just three points ahead of those wanting to leave. A lot seems to depend on whether the poll is taken by phone or online — with phone surveys tending to be more favourable to the Remain camp.

Amid all the smoke and noise generated by the polls, one finding is clear and consistent. Age is a reliable predictor of voting intention in the referendum. The older you are, the more likely you are to vote for Britain to leave the EU (Brexit). The younger you are, the more likely you are to vote for Remain. A recent YouGov poll suggested that 63 per cent of those aged between 18 and 29 want to stay in the EU, while 56 per cent of those over 60 want to leave. Given that the old are much more likely to vote than the young, the age-gap in voting intentions could be a significant advantage for the anti-EU campaign.

The idea that the young are getting a raw deal in Britain has become entrenched in recent years — as house prices have soared and wages have stagnated. If Britain now votes to leave the EU, against the wishes of the younger voters who will have to live with the consequences of Brexit, that could justly be seen as another example of intergenerational unfairness.

A similar generational argument was made about Scotland’s referendum on independence from the UK in 2014. Back then, young Scots were much more likely to vote for independence than older voters. But there is an important difference between the Brexit and the Scottish referendums. It seems likely that, at some point in the not-too-distant future, there will be another Scottish referendum, giving younger Scots another chance to vote for independence. However, it seems very unlikely that a British decision to leave the EU could be easily reversed by another vote. When it comes to Brexit, the “cat-flap” option — out, then quickly back in again — simply does not exist.

Older people may also be more attached to the idea of Great Britain, while younger Scots are more willing to back breaking up the union, and the young across the UK, in general, less protective of British national sovereignty

The Cameron government has been strangely neglectful of the need to take advantage of the youth vote, in its campaign to keep Britain inside the EU. In the Scottish referendum, 16-18 year-olds were given the vote. But there will be no such provision in the EU referendum. Some even worry that, if it is a very close vote, the fact that the referendum is taking place during the Glastonbury rock festival — which is attended by up to 200,000 mostly young people — could depress the pro-EU vote.

The reasons for the age-gap in voting intentions are hard to pin down. It may be that the young are less motivated by arguments about national sovereignty. Young people may also be more comfortable with a multicultural society than older voters, which is an important consideration, in a referendum campaign that could turn on questions of immigration and border control. The young may also particularly value the opportunity to travel and to work anywhere in a bloc of 28 countries and 500m people. A Brexit would significantly narrow those opportunities, in all probability throwing the British back into an era when they needed a visa to work in Europe. That narrowing of horizons and opportunities should be a concern for young and old alike.
