The Leave camp’s flawed fightback on migration
The UK cannot end free movement and retain access to single market

The Leave camp has long believed that immigration is among its strongest cards in the EU referendum debate. Now, after a week that has seen its leaders smarting from interventions by the UK Treasury and US president Barack Obama on the critical questions of the economy and trade, it is little wonder the Out campaign is retreating to what it regards as more congenial ground.

In a bid to regain the initiative ahead of the June 23 poll, Michael Gove, the justice secretary, has warned Britain would be subject to a future migration “free for all” unless it leaves the EU. He declared on Monday that enlargement to five new potential members — Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia, Albania and Turkey — would result in millions more people gaining the right to come to the UK. This would pose a “direct and serious threat” to public services, including the stretched NHS.

Tactically, it makes sense for the Brexiters to raise this spectre. Many Britons are concerned by the issue of free movement, and headlines about mass migration to the EU from the Middle East and Africa have heightened those fears. That is why it is important for the In campaign to spell out the fundamental flaws in Mr Gove’s argument.

The Out camp presents an end to free movement as though it is a choice that could be exercised independently of all other economic considerations in the aftermath of a vote to leave. But if Britain did choose this course, it would also want to maintain some privileged access to the EU’s single market of 500m people. This would be highly desirable since almost half of EU exports go to the bloc. Doing so would affect Britain’s ability to limit migration. The experience of Norway and Iceland, both members of the European Economic Area, shows that countries seeking to retain access to the single market can only do so if they accept free movement of EU citizens.

Mr Gove is on shaky territory when he argues that Britain would be subject to a migration free-for-all because of further EU enlargement. With the exception of Turkey — whose accession is highly improbable — the countries he cites are relatively small, having a collective population not much larger than Belgium. Even if they make the reforms necessary to qualify, Britain and other states retain a veto on their accession. And should they succeed, the UK can impose a long transitional period before their citizens can work and reside in Britain.

 
One other aspect of the Brexiters’ argument was convincingly countered by the home secretary, Theresa May, on Monday. The Out campaign has attempted to draw a link between ending free movement and enhancing Britain’s security. While free movement rules make it hard to manage the volume of EU migration, Ms May argued that the UK’s opt out from the Schengen area means it can conduct checks on people travelling to Britain from elsewhere in Europe. In an effective intervention, she highlighted that remaining in the EU means Britain “will be more secure from crime and terrorism”, not less.

In the run-up to June 23, the Leave campaigners are likely to return again and again to the theme of immigration, believing it resonates with the public. But we cannot know how much “control” a post-Brexit Britain would exercise over its borders unless the Out camp first declares where it stands on questions regarding trade and the economy. This brings us back to the central flaw that bedevils the Leave campaign: it refuses to define what the world outside the EU looks like. Instead, it is asking the British people to take a leap in the dark.
