The Brexiteers must stop dodging the big question
The Treasury analysis of what Out means demands a serious response

As the British people prepare to vote in June’s EU referendum, the issue that should be uppermost in their minds is what Brexit would mean for the economy. The public needs to be given as much detail as possible on the costs and benefits of membership in order to inform their choice. With that aim in mind, the UK Treasury has published a report on the long-term implications of withdrawal from the bloc. Its analysis leaves little doubt that it is in Britain’s overwhelming economic interest to stay in.

The Treasury’s report states that leaving the EU would mean that output could end up being about 6 per cent smaller than might otherwise have been by 2030. It says that this would amount to an annual cost to British households of £4,300 a year, a heavy burden on many families.

As he spearheads the economic case against Brexit, George Osborne insists that the UK would be permanently poorer if it left the EU. Of course, the chancellor is articulating government policy, but this is his job and it should in no way detract from the fact that his department has also produced a credible and authoritative piece of work.

There is some scope to criticise the Treasury’s analysis. Predicting what the UK economy will look like a decade and a half from now can only ever be a rough exercise and one with some margin for error. But unlike the Foreign Office, the Treasury has never been a Europhile institution. The mandarins looking down on Horse Guard’s Road are of the Eurosceptic stripe. Most firmly — and correctly — they opposed the idea of Britain joining the single currency more than a decade ago.

The Treasury’s conclusions about the economic consequences of Brexit are in line with the view of almost every reputable economic body from the International Monetary Fund down. Britain’s departure from the EU would lead to a long period of uncertainty over its access to the single market of 500m people. Post-Brexit, the UK could try to retain market access by copying trade deals struck by Norway and Canada or by relying on WTO membership. But, as the Treasury argues, each of these options would significantly reduce the UK’s openness to trade and investment, resulting in a big reduction in Britain’s productivity.

The Out campaign has responded by conflating the record of the Treasury and the motives of the government. The former cabinet minister John Redwood argued that the Treasury has had a poor history of economic forecasting, adding that it was impossible to know what the British economy might look like in 2030 anyway.

Such tactics are deliberately evasive. They do not serve as a serious response to the central economic question in this campaign: what would life be like outside the EU?

The Out camp has failed to come down clearly on what post-Brexit trading arrangement it favours. It claims, with straight face, that Britain could maintain access to the single market without meeting the obligations this entails as regards free movement of people. This disdain for political reality bears more than a passing resemblance to the Know Nothing rhetoric of Donald Trump.

This June’s referendum is the most important political decision that the British people will take for a generation. All sides must engage in arguments of substance. The Treasury’s report is a useful counterpoint in a debate that is becoming increasingly politically charged, especially within a divided Conservative party. If the Brexiteers cannot respond by addressing the issues it raises head on, they do not deserve to be taken seriously.
