The Observer view on immigration and the EU referendum

With less than two weeks to go until the European referendum, it is public attitudes towards immigration that pose the biggest risk to Britain’s membership of the EU. It’s easy to forget that our national preoccupation with Europe wasn’t always focused on its citizens arriving in our country: the debate was dominated in the 1970s by the economic pros and cons, then in the 1990s by questions of sovereignty. But in the last 10 years – since the arrival of a wave of eastern Europeans into the UK – the European debate has become inseparable from our concern about immigration and control of borders.

Public concern about immigration – and the levels of support Ukip was attracting as a result before the 2015 election – played an important role in David Cameron’s decision to call a referendum. Yet the Remain campaign has consistently struggled to respond to the fierce attacks of the Brexit camp on the issue, and to articulate a strategy for addressing people’s concerns on the issue.

One of the difficulties for politicians campaigning for Remain is that immigration has become a means of addressing a wider agenda. On one level, public concerns in areas that have experienced a large influx of incomers concern its impact on public services, jobs and wages, and housing. For a town such as Boston in Lincolnshire – 10.6% of whose population is made up of people born in one of the “new” European countries, such as Poland, Lithuania, Latvia or Romania, according to the 2011 census – there have been effects on school places and funding, GP availability and local housing. Since 2010, there have been few extra resources to help areas cope, fuelling resentment. While immigration may have a positive overall impact on the economy, the experience in local communities may be very different.

For some voters, immigration reflects broader concerns about cultural and economic identities being eroded. This is particularly true in areas where industries have declined without being replaced with other sources of livelihoods. And legitimate concerns can sometimes spill over into toxic xenophobia that must be challenged.

The main parties have struggled to frame a response. Both adopted superficial measures to “control” immigration preceding the 2015 election: David Cameron through a migration cap he had no chance of meeting; Ed Miliband by strengthening the border and moving to a more contributory system of welfare. On broader economic and cultural disenchantment, neither party has been able to speak to people who feel left behind by globalisation; the 2015 election result shows this is a much bigger existential problem for Labour than the Conservatives.

So it was perhaps inevitable that immigration would remain an awkward issue for politicians campaigning for Britain to remain in Europe. Cameron made much of immigration in his renegotiation, but in the end extracted a brake on in-work benefits, a lesser concession than he had hoped. He has made little of this, undoubtedly because few experts think it will have any impact on numbers, particularly while the minimum wage is increasing. Jeremy Corbyn has made a positive case for immigration, but has not acknowledged it might bring downsides in some Labour heartlands: Labour’s referendum leaflet did not mention immigration as an issue.

It consequently feels like the referendum campaign is being fought on separate pitches: the campaign to remain, on the economy; the campaign to leave, on immigration.

But with the polls uncomfortably close with days to go, Cameron’s gamble that focusing on the economic consequences of Brexit would be enough to swing undecided voters looks like it might be a mistake. Only a quarter of voters in a poll last week thought they would be poorer if we left the EU – astonishing, given the focus on pounding home this message.

Leave’s message – vote to get back control of our borders – is racked with inconsistencies: no campaigner has been able to explain how Britain would have access to the benefits of the single market without signing up to freedom of movement, like Norway and Switzerland. But it is a strong message and, unsurprisingly, is resonating with voters concerned about immigration.

Time is running out: the Remain campaign needs to develop a more proactive message on immigration. Of course the broader sense of popular malaise associated with immigration in some parts of the country cannot be fixed in two weeks. But in driving through austerity and failing to address chronic issues in public services over the last six years, the government has made things worse.

The idea of a government fund to support councils to cope with the impacts of immigration on local services has been mooted many times before, and is something the government should have adopted. It still can: an announcement this week could go some way to addressing people’s concerns.

Any sense, however, that the referendum might settle the anxieties and concerns around immigration, has completely disappeared through the course of the campaign. It will leave big questions unresolved, both domestically and within Europe.

For the EU, British attitudes to immigration, mirrored in voters in other parts of Europe, raise important questions about whether maintaining the freedom of movement in its pure form can be consistent with maintaining the legitimacy of the union as it expands to include countries with much lower standards of living than the EU average.

Here in the UK, there will remain profound questions for politicians, particularly in the Labour party, about their relationship with voters who feel left behind by globalisation and who fear the loss of identity. Labour’s referendum campaign has failed to connect with this group.

We need to see more action from both the government and the Labour party in the remaining days of the campaign. The government should announce concrete measures to help communities adapt to immigration; Labour needs to make better the case for Britain’s European membership in its Eurosceptic constituencies in the north and the Midlands. A victory for Remain could depend on it. But regardless of which way it goes, the public anxieties that have surfaced in this campaign – and which pose existential questions for the EU and parties of the centre-left – will outlive the result.