Vote Leave is damaging Britain’s political culture
Its relentless attacks on UK institutions are increasingly disturbing


	The campaign being waged by Vote Leave ahead of the EU referendum is unlike any that has been seen in British politics. One distinguishing feature is the zeal with which it launches personalised attacks on any institution or public figure that points out the risks the UK would face if it left the bloc. A degree of hyperbole is an allowable feature of modern political campaigning. But the Brexiters’ insouciant demolition of any authority that questions their vision is increasingly disturbing.

The debate on the economic consequences of Brexit is where its irreverence has been most evident. The Bank of England and the Treasury have provided detailed analyses of the dangers and, given the significance of the referendum decision, both would be legitimately criticised if they failed to do so. Even so, Mark Carney has been lambasted by Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Conservative MP, who has accused the governor of taking sides and acting “beneath the dignity of the Bank of England”. The Treasury has been accused by the Leave camp of being pro-European, with Iain Duncan Smith, the leading Brexiter, saying the institution is “the worst thing we have in Britain” and should be broken up.

Such assaults have been extended to other parts of the debate. Simon Stevens, the respected chief executive of the National Health Service, warned on Sunday that Brexit would damage the institution he leads, only to be accused of having made “a very considerable mess” of the NHS. When two former heads of the security services declared that Brexit would undermine the fight against terrorism, they were accused of being nobbled by Downing Street.

The Leave campaign is quick to attack the messenger when it is unwilling or unable to address the message. The tendency is most pronounced in the debate on the economy, where it has offered no serious prospectus to counter the arguments made by the Remain camp. Nor are most of its attacks based on fact. It is mistaken, for example, to accuse the Treasury of being pro-European when it designed the five economic tests that ensured Britain stayed out of the euro.

It is understandable that Vote Leave wants to tap into the weariness of voters with the establishment, a widespread consequence of the financial crisis. But the vilification of elites and institutions, if pressed too far, can push public sentiment to extremes. Nowhere has this been more evident than in the US.

In recent years, the obstructionism of the Republican party has signalled to voters that institutions and traditions are things to be ignored and insulted. After such irreverence, the demagoguery — and appeal — of Donald Trump should come as no surprise.


A fundamental contradiction at the heart of Vote Leave is becoming harder to ignore. The Brexiters demand that Britain should leave the EU so that sovereignty is returned to the British people. Yet they lose no opportunity to attack the credibility of the very public institutions which would exercise that sovereignty should the UK depart.

Even their insistence this week that Britain must be allowed a referendum on any future enlargement of the EU is perplexing. It implies that parliament itself cannot be trusted to act in the people’s interests.

Four weeks before referendum day, there are signs that wavering voters are starting to recognise that the Leave side cannot mount a sustained case for the UK’s departure from the EU. Even if the Brexiters fail on June 23, however, their irresponsible campaign may leave a mark. Their tactics risk inflicting lasting damage on Britain’s democratic culture.
