Business has to speak up on the dangers of Brexit
More voices are needed to warn voters of the risk of leaving the EU

For many people in Britain, the EU referendum campaign has only just begun. Until now, the furious arguments over whether the UK should remain or leave have been the preserve of politicians. Neither side has established a convincing lead in the polls and, with less than three weeks to election day, millions of Britons have still to decide which way to vote.

Last week’s live TV debates on Sky News with Prime Minister David Cameron and Michael Gove, the anti-EU justice secretary, took the campaign into the final straight, setting out the main battle lines: the economy and immigration. Both were raucous affairs in which neither politician emerged as the winner. The encounters with studio audiences did, however, expose the Remain camp to the challenges it has to face if it is to be sure of victory.

This newspaper believes that a vote to leave the EU would be playing Russian roulette with the British economy, in the words of Sir John Major, the former prime minister. The debates did nothing to puncture Mr Cameron’s argument that Brexit would see the UK facing a decade of economic uncertainty if it left the single market. It also showed that the most emotive issue by far is still immigration.

Mr Gove’s performance demonstrated the Brexiters’ flawed economic arguments, which involve peddling questionable assurances that the costs will not be excessive. His claim that “people in this country have had enough of experts” was lame. There is no evidence to back up Mr Gove’s claim that the EU, as an institution, is a “job-destroying machine”. If so, how has his own government created 2m jobs in the past six years?

Even if the economic arguments for Remain are broadly sound, there is no reason for complacency; the message has yet to prove decisive with voters. For weeks, reputable institutions from the International Monetary Fund to the Bank of England have spelt out the risks of leaving. But as Mr Cameron’s encounter showed, many voters still seem to think this is “scaremongering”.


The Remain camp’s task has undoubtedly been made harder by the Brexiters’ tactic of attacking the reputation of any expert or institution that warns of the economic risks, but Mr Cameron and George Osborne, the chancellor, must bear some of the blame for the public cynicism. Voters view as suspiciously precise their suggestion that every British household would be £4,300 worse off if Britain leaves. They need to avoid claims that come close to gimmickry in the final phase of campaigning.

The prime minister and chancellor also need to overcome voters’ general scepticism towards the elite and the establishment. Regardless of how they perform, a wider diversity of pro-EU voices is urgently needed. This places a special responsibility on business leaders. Signing letters about the dangers of Brexit is not enough — every CEO ought to be speaking directly to their employees to spell out the personal consequences of leaving. Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan, has set an example by publicly warning his firm’s British employees that thousands of jobs are at risk if the country leaves the EU.

The EU referendum has split the Conservative party, polarised the country and stoked anti-establishment politics, but it has also encouraged democratic debate. Politicians must respond with facts and sound arguments. In an age of anti-politician sentiments, it is incumbent on business leaders to speak up, too. There is no more pressing issue for business than the UK’s membership of the EU. To stay silent would be grossly irresponsible.
