Brexit camp should be clear about migration
A decision to close the door to the EU would have repercussions

The call for Britain to take back control of its borders has become the rallying cry of the campaign to leave the EU. No other issue unites Eurosceptics or resonates with voters as effectively as concern over unchecked immigration — in particular, anger at the rising number of EU nationals working in the UK. Boris Johnson and his pro-Brexit allies purport to offer an alternative, proposing “a genuine Australian-style points based immigration system”.

This may sound attractive but it does not constitute a coherent policy. Australia’s border controls are notoriously tough but its points system is merely a mechanism to select people, one the UK has already experimented with for non-EU migration. The crucial questions that Mr Johnson has sidestepped are whether it is possible or desirable to significantly cut work-basedimmigration, from the EU or elsewhere, and what trade-offs this would entail for the economy.

It is true that Britain would have more discretion over immigration policy if it left the EU. Asylum and family reunion would be largely unaffected, and the government would be likely to continue encouraging genuine applications to study at UK universities. But it would be possible to close the door to EU economic migrants who currently have the right to live and work in Britain and have accounted for a growing share of net immigration in recent years.

However, a decision to restrict immigration from the EU would have significant repercussions. It would almost certainly make it impossible for Britain to retain access to the single market at a heavy cost to manufacturers, the services sector and consumers. It would probably lead EU governments to reciprocate, limiting British citizens’ ability to work abroad and to spend their retirement in the sun.

Pro-Brexit campaigners have made it clear that they consider this to be a price worth paying to claw back powers from Brussels. But they are far less forthcoming about how they would use those powers. There is a strong suggestion that a points-based system could be used to limit immigration. But it is notable that there is no commitment to cut numbers, and no proposal to introduce a numerical quota.

Perhaps this is because even the leading proponents of Brexit silently acknowledge the central role that EU migrants currently play in the UK economy. Points-based immigration systems, and alternatives in which employers sponsor people for work permits, tend to focus on high-skilled migration or meeting shortages in specialist skills. But many UK employers now rely on migrants to fill a wide variety of relatively low-skilled jobs where British applicants are in short supply.

In some sectors, construction for example, employers might have a greater incentive to train UK youngsters if they were unable to recruit abroad. Perhaps shops and hotels, already struggling to absorb the rise in the minimum wage, would find ways to replace European staff with greater use of technology. But it is hard to see how care homes, farming or food processing would cope without recruiting low-skilled workers from overseas.


Low-skilled EU migrants meet a demand in the economy. They raise overall output and are net contributors to the public finances. There is little evidence that they drive down wages or cause unemployment among UK workers. Many work in the public sector.

If the intention is to end low-skilled migration in the aftermath of a vote to leave the EU, proponents of Brexit need to explain to employers and users of Britain’s public services how they plan to fill the gap.
