For science, Brexit is an experiment too far
Research collaboration has benefited hugely from EU membership

Few sections of British society favour EU membership more strongly than scientists. A recent poll of 907 active UK researchers by the scientific journal Nature found that 83 per cent want to remain in the EU while only 12 per cent will vote to leave in the June 23 referendum. Their enthusiasm reflects the scientific success of Britain within the EU. Its universities and research labs are highly productive by almost any measure: with 4 per cent of the world’s scientists, the UK produces almost 16 per cent of its most cited research papers.

Although the country has been a scientific powerhouse since the 19th century, its recent performance owes a lot to an inflow of EU funding, which has compensated for flat UK government support. Britain contributes 12 per cent to the total EU budget but receives more than 15 per cent of its science funding — and it wins a particularly large share of grants from the European Research Council set up in 2007 to support world-class science.

Some participation would survive Brexit, because the EU permits non-members to take part in its flagship Horizon 2020 research programme if they pay an appropriate subscription. Even so UK science would take a substantial financial hit, estimated at £1bn a year by the technology consultancy Digital Science. Leave campaigners may argue the government could make up the gap from money saved by Britain no longer having to contribute to the EU. But in practice, there would be so many other calls on this pot that science is extremely unlikely to receive enough extra national funding to compensate for the loss.

Financial self-interest is not the only reason why most researchers dread the prospect of Brexit. Science today is a supremely international activity and leading UK labs are staffed with bright young scientists from across Europe, as well as homegrown researchers and visitors from elsewhere in the world. The past few years have also seen a welcome shift in the traditional British academic attitude of automatically looking across the Atlantic to an American university for postgraduate or postdoctoral experience; many research students now think first of a post elsewhere in Europe.

Whatever the Leave campaign may say, Brexit would inevitably damage the international spirit of science in the UK and across Europe. Even if the government made it easier for researchers to come to Britain from non-EU countries, they would not make up for the inevitable loss of people from elsewhere in Europe.

Beyond the academic world, Brexit would cost Britain its role as host to two EU institutions important for the life sciences industry. Most damaging would be the loss of the European Medicines Agency, which employs 600 people in London and, more importantly, acts as a magnet for international pharmaceuticals groups to locate their European base in Britain. If the EMA leaves London and Britain’s own Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency has to pick up the pieces, the disruption in the licensing and approval of new drugs would be damaging for patients and medical practice, as well as the pharma industry.

The other institution at risk is a new one: the Unified Patent Court, due to start work next year as part of a system that would enable inventors to obtain a “unitary patent” valid across most of the EU, rather than having to register the patent in each of 28 countries. Brexit would scupper plans to locate the court’s life sciences division in London and leave the whole project in turmoil — to the dismay of science-based industries from pharma to electronics, which favour the unitary patent as a way to foster innovation by making it easier to protect intellectual property.

Some scientists complain about misguided and excessive regulations from Brussels, but the UK has been able to improve many of them (the clinical trials directive, for example) from within the EU. British researchers working in Europe would still be subject to EU regulations after leaving but would have no way to amend them.

There may be a remote possibility that research would flourish after Brexit in a new spirit of global collaboration, free of annoying Brussels regulations and with the UK government making up for lost EU funding. But no sensible scientist would go into an experiment with such a small chance of success. Research is a key driver of economic growth and prosperity — and should not be put at risk.
