The Guardian view: Gordon Brown’s EU referendum cavalry is dangerously late

David Cameron’s failure to mobilise Conservative voters in support of remaining in the European Union has many causes. But the Tory leader’s personal failure over the years to make a rounded pro-European case in the face of backbench and grassroots Europhobia is certainly one of them. The weakness of Mr Cameron’s leadership on the issue has always meant that Labour votes would be crucial on 23 June if Britain is to stay in the EU. The value of those Labour votes to the remain camp is now even further underscored by the Guardian’s latest ICM polls, which show the leave side moving into an ominous six-point lead in new online and telephone surveys alike.

Suddenly the task facing the remain campaign is not just to energise Labour voters for their cause over the coming 10 days. It is also to prevent the Labour vote from slipping ever more decisively towards leave, and helping to produce a result with appallingly dangerous consequences for Britain and Europe, as well as for many Labour voters. Vital though it is, it is not just the result of the referendum next week that hangs on Labour’s ability to rouse its vote for Europe. Labour’s longer-term command of its own electoral base may be at stake too.

It is wrong to dump all the blame on Jeremy Corbyn for this clear and present danger. True, Mr Corbyn is a longstanding opponent of the EU. Since he became leader last year, however, he has done his duty on the issue, by standing up for Labour’s longstanding policy of support for staying in the EU. He hasn’t done this as often or enthusiastically as we would wish, but at least he has done it. His recent comment that he gives the EU seven points out of 10 is indeed, in some ways, a positive verdict. Since almost all voters have things they dislike about the EU, even when they are much more committed to remaining in Europe than the Labour leader is, it may even be that Mr Corbyn’s restrained endorsement will persuade the still undecided to vote remain.

But Mr Corbyn’s muted enthusiasm for the EU means that others have to supply the authority and passion that he will not. With so many of Labour’s big figures of the last generation now in eclipse, that task has thus fallen to Gordon Brown. Mr Brown is credited with having turned the Scottish referendum campaign around in the final fortnight in 2014 by banging heads together and injecting fresh ideas into the unionist campaign just as the nationalists seemed to be surging. Whatever the accuracy of that version of history, it is clear that new energy and thinking are needed at the business end of the EU campaign too. If Mr Brown can deliver a second time, so much the better. This country needs the seriousness, drive and principle that he brings to this crucial task.

It will not be easy, however. Mr Brown will not get a fair hearing from newspapers that are so fixated in achieving a Brexit vote that they ignored the Orlando killings. And the five-point reform agenda he outlined in his speech in Leicester on Monday is harder to deliver than the vow that, with his standing in Scotland, he dragooned the unionist parties into backing in 2014. Mr Brown proposes action on tax havens, an EU growth strategy and support for communities facing large-scale migration. These are all good things, but Mr Cameron has to sign up for them too, which has not happened, and which much of his party will oppose. Even if that hurdle is cleared, the plans must then be adopted by the member states, which is at this stage aspirational. No one who wants Europe to work for European workers as well as businesses can disapprove of Mr Brown’s agenda. It is a serious effort at constructing the long-term social policy counterbalance to the eurozone’s failed fiscal austerity. But it is not yet a bankable promise for UK voters.

Nor did Mr Brown give a strong counter to leave’s relentless migration focus. Labour has struggled with this issue for a decade. It wasn’t nailed in his five points either. Press questioners and leave campaigners seized on that. Mr Brown responded by talking about illegal immigration rather than EU migration. On Monday night, as Hilary Benn called for honesty about migration, Mr Brown’s ally Ed Balls urged more effective borders and new controls on EU economic migration. But that too is aspirational at best. Mr Corbyn doesn’t support it. Nor do most EU member states. The return of the Labour heavyweights to the frontline is welcome. Mr Cameron’s willingness to cede some campaign space is overdue. The Labour vote is vital for remain. But it may all be too little, too late and too unclear for Labour to turn this around now.