
Lord Stuart Rose: We will never kowtow to Europe but we are all stronger in the EU
Former Marks & Spencer boss Lord STUART ROSE is chairman of the Britain Stronger In Europe campaign group which is spearheading Prime Minister David Cameron’s battle to convince the public to vote to remain in the EU.
I am a Eurosceptic. Given that I am running the campaign to keep Britain in Europe, you may find this surprising. But I recognise that to many in Britain, Brussels can be maddening, bureaucratic and sluggish.
Migration is a global challenge and has become a growing issue for Europe to cope with in recent years. European economies have struggled to recover from the global financial crisis.
And the default instinct in Brussels has, too often, been to focus on smaller issues rather than tackle these bigger headaches. So why am I campaigning for Britain to remain part of Europe?
Because while the EU is far from perfect, it is simply better than the alternative. By and large, Europe works for us. We are stronger, safer, and better off in Europe as it is.
And the new deal with Brussels negotiated by the Prime Minister will improve our relationship, and deal with some of the aspects of Europe that have angered the people of Britain.
I am no career politician, having spent a lifetime in business running companies like Marks & Spencer. And I can see that being in Europe is profitable for Britain.
The lack of trade barriers created by our EU membership helps us sell £229billion of goods and services a year to Europe. We attract investment, win funding for cutting-edge scientific research, and benefit from trade deals with over 50 other countries.
Many people feel that we pay too much money to Brussels. But our contribution to the EU budget works out at £340 a year for the average household – a fraction of the £3,000 independently estimated benefit to each household caused by our exports to Europe.
We live in an uncertain world, facing international threats like terrorism. The only answer is to work together with our allies to keep our citizens safe. The EU helps us do this.
The European Arrest Warrant allows us to speedily deport European criminals. The Europol organisation helps police forces around Europe fight terrorist groups together.
And the EU shares intelligence amongst its members. Former police chief Sir Hugh Ode being in Europe makes our country “safer and more secure” and I agree with him.
The campaign to keep Britain in Europe is based on the belief that Britain is a great country and that we play our part in shaping the world. Being at the top table with 27 close allies allows us to look countries like America and China in the eye at the negotiating table.
It has helped us deliver EU-wide sanctions on Russia in response to their aggression in Ukraine and combine to defeat piracy off Somalia. Britain is stronger in the world as part of Europe.
Those campaigning for us to leave have failed to prove that doing so would make us safer or stronger. Leave campaigners claim that we could retain trading links with Europe, our largest trading partner, but to keep our economy safe we will need as close a trading relationship with Europe as possible once we leave.
But those who want us to leave are unsure what the deal would be, and they refuse to admit the truth – that if we wanted to keep free access to European markets, we would need to keep paying into the EU budget, implementing the rules with no say over how they were made, and accepting the free movement of people from Europe.
The proposed reforms to our relationship with Europe outlined earlier this week will be good for Britain. People who come to our country will have their access to benefits restricted.
Our economy will be protected from meddling by countries which use the euro. And our Parliament will gain new powers to block EU laws.
Britain is already stronger and better off in Europe. These proposals strengthen our hand. And remember that Britain already enjoys the best of both worlds.
We have full and unrestricted access to the world’s largest free trade market and co-operate on fighting crime and terrorism. But we have quite rightly kept the pound and our border controls.
The choice facing us is between the imperfect reality of being in today against the real risk of leaving tomorrow. Britain will never be a nation which kowtows to the EU and I do not want it to be.
But we should recognise that our deal with Europe is improving, that we are stronger in, and leaving would be a pointless risk to our security and prosperity.
