The Guardian view on the Brussels political aftermath: both dangerous and wrong]
Brexit would not strengthen Britain in the fight against terror. Cooperation and partnership between nations whose values are under attack provides a much stronger framework of protection

The aftermath of the horrific terrorist attack that struck Brussels on Tuesday has followed a pattern that has become glumly familiar from its 7/7, Charlie Hebdo and Bataclan forerunners. First, names of victims begin to emerge. Smiling faces on photographs and poignant life stories allow the world a glimpse of the human loss. From medical staff come awful details of the injuries. From survivors themselves, stories of what it was like to live through the horror.

This is the public foreground to a police investigation that is still only partially glimpsed. Again, though, some of the details seem to echo a familiar pattern. One bomber failed to detonate his bomb and is on the run. Two of the others were known to the police; they had criminal records and may have had links with the Paris attackers. Out of sight, a huge international security effort is under way across Europe.

What makes the slowly unfolding events in Belgium more unusual is that there are some people who want to use the Brussels terror to fuel wider political causes and agendas. Contenders in two separate political contests, the US presidential campaign and the British EU referendum, have seen the possibility of exploiting post-Brussels fears to boost their campaigns, and have seized on it. This is cheap and dangerous stuff.

The Republican frontrunner, Donald Trump, made some wild allegations in a TV interview with Piers Morgan. The man who last year told Americans there were no-go areas in many British cities, told Mr Morgan that British Muslims are reluctant to pass on information to the security forces. These claims were comprehensively dismissed by Scotland Yard and given a magisterial squashing by the home secretary, Theresa May, in the Commons on Wednesday. The UK government’s counter-terrorism strategy is far from perfect. But the officer in charge of it has insisted he is heartened by the willingness of the majority of Muslim communities to support the police.

More damaging in the British context are some claims by our own politicians. Campaigners against the EU persistently claim that restoring total control of UK borders would make a terror attack less likely. Brussels has been seized on as an opportunity to inflame the charge, in the face of the evidence, as shown in two carefully argued articles, one by the former DPP and now Labour MP Keir Starmer, the other by the independent reviewer of terrorism, David Anderson. Ukip’s defence spokesman, Mike Hookem, tried to tie the bombings to migration, and Nigel Farage repeated the same claim. Although the former head of MI6 Sir Richard Dearlove has argued recently that leaving the EU may matter less in security terms than Sir Keir or Mr Anderson believe, even he does not envisage that there would be any gain from leaving the jurisdiction of the European court of justice or from putting the benefits of established security and intelligence cooperation in jeopardy.

But this is not an academic policy argument between experts. The political danger is that, in the heightened mood of uncertainty that follows any terrorist attack, assertions such as Mr Farage’s find a ready audience. These lies and half-truths need to be swiftly and effectively challenged at the highest level of government and civil society. This isn’t happening enough. Yet as Boris Johnson discovered on Wednesday when he was taken to task by the Commons treasury select committee over his many unsubstantiated assertions about the economic benefits, as he sees them, of an exit from the EU, even the unofficial leader of the Leave campaign can be made to look foolish if he is caught out failing to treat facts with respect.

Membership of the EU cannot possibly guarantee the protection of Britain against a terrorist attack, least of all a homegrown one. But solidarity and cooperation is the best defence against a terrorist movement that is determined to destroy the stability and values of Britain and Europe alike.