The Guardian view on the economics of Brexit: a fact-based fear

Every referendum is in the end a contest between the status quo and a change. It would hardly be worth having such a vote if it were not. Britain’s European Union referendum is certainly such a contest. In this case it’s a choice between the status quo, sticking with the EU, or a change, leaving it. The Scottish referendum two years ago was the same: the status quo of the union or a change in the shape of independence.

It follows from this that any referendum is inherently a contest between the risks or rewards of change. That’s why it makes no sense to dismiss a defence of the status quo – remaining in the EU in the current case – as simply a Project Fear. This is an effective insult to throw at defenders of the status quo – as happened in Scotland – but ultimately an insult is all that it is. Defenders of the status quo are bound to emphasise the risk of change as part of their case. Sometimes it shows good judgment to warn. Sometimes it is wise, sensible and responsible to remind people to be fearful. Sometimes those who scream about Project Fear at every turn prove only that they are in denial about reality.

Two months before polling day, and with public opinion too evenly divided for comfort, Britain’s EU referendum has now reached such a point. It is time to get serious about defending Britain’s place in Europe. There are many positive reasons – prominent among them strength in numbers, shared values, mutual protection and avoidance of war – why Britain should remain in the EU. They are a fundamental part of the case for remaining. They could and should help make an essential and inspiring case.

But there are also a lot of real dangers to leaving, and these dangers need to be voiced loudly, repeatedly and without apology too. The Treasury is entirely right to make those dangers as clear as it can. It would be failing in its task if it did anything else. On Monday it published a very substantial assessment of the long-term economic impact of the different courses on which Britain will vote on 23 June. The bottom line is simply that Britain will be very significantly worse off as a country if it leaves the EU.

The Treasury assessment concludes that economic slowdown following a Brexit and a new trading relationship with Europe would amount to the loss of £36bn in tax receipts. To recoup that would require an 8p rise on the basic rate of income tax or a 7p rise in VAT. Some of the figures in the Treasury document, those that relate to the state of the economy in 15 or 20 years, will prove to be wrong. But the general picture allows no get-out. Britain will be worse off leaving Europe. Short-term dislocation and long-term damage would be inevitable consequences. And those at the bottom of the economic ladder would suffer them most.

It won’t do to dismiss the assessment as deeply flawed, as the leave campaign did on Monday, let alone to call such warnings “baloney” as London’s mayor did in March. Responses of this sort are not serious. But they are the ones the leave campaign always prefers. The leavers seem incapable of saying in practical terms what their vision for Brexit Britain would look like or how it would add up in figures that can be tested. The Treasury’s assessment is in line with other assessments made here or abroad. It is not scaremongering. It is a reality check. British voters have every reason to be fearful of what the leave campaign would inflict on them.