The referendum and where we go next 
For most of us, history calls at very few times in our lives. Today is a moment on which futures turn. The opinion pollsters are done, the din has stopped. You Decide. The margin of victory could be devilishly narrow: polls last night showed Leave and Remain just a couple of percentage points apart. The margin of error means that this colossal choice remains too close to call. Every vote will count. We have tried to bring you balanced reporting as well as thought-provoking  opinions from both sides, without hectoring you about how to vote. A radical idea, apparently. Brush with peril If we elect to stay, it is doubtful that our cousins across the channel will be chastened by a brush with peril. The EU, for all its many merits, is sclerotic in the face of a changing continent, and refuses to recognise its democratic deficit. It has shown itself incapable of acting decisively in concert. Facing a refugee crisis, the EU has agreed that it would like to find a solution. Its reaction to the euro financial crisis has been to compel countries to inflict rounds of self-defeating austerity. There is no plan to deal with southern Europe’s choking youth unemployment. All the while, new economic adversaries in Asia redouble their efforts. Britain has long questioned ever-closer union, yet fellow EU states have often dismissed such reticence instead of addressing concerns. If we leave, the EU could not say it wasn’t warned, or that it tried hard enough to keep us. Powerful arguments Powerful economic and moral arguments have been made on i’s letters page, for both sides. If, today, we vote out, then Germany and the other continental pragmatists must tackle these hazards without us. We retreat from Europe’s unique and successful attempt to leave behind the horrors of the 20th century’s wars. If we leave and want access to the single market we will have to continue to follow its rules without helping to write them, and allow free movement of people anyway. And European capitals won’t make it easy to quit, for fear of encourager les autres. Their message to us: please don’t leave. But if you do, we’ll make your life hell. Proud nation Several things are true regardless of today’s result. Campaigning has left the Conservative Party carrying new wounds; damaged the Government’s ability to operate with a majority of 12; and probably shortened David Cameron’s premiership. Labour, meanwhile, has struggled to mobilise its core vote outside London, leaving MPs fearing for the party’s foundations. We are a proud nation determined to doubt ourselves, fearful of decline, dismissive of our continued contributions to European and global life: cultural ingenuity, great scientific and medical advances, social and civil freedoms, political pragmatism, human rights. Whatever today’s result, the energies of our now-divided kingdom should be thrown at new projects to engage with the world. Let us nurture a generation – those children now at primary school – who are more confident of their place in the 21st-century than we are. History heeds us today, but will not wait for us.
